UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO Faculty of Arts and Science
DECEMBER 2012 EXAMINATIONS AST101H1F
Duration – 3 hours No Aids Allowed
NAME: __________________________________ UTORID: (e.g.smitha4) __________________ STUDENT NUMBER: _____________________
Instructions:
1. ON THIS PAGE: Fill in your identifying information above. Make sure you fill in your name AS IT APPEARS ON ROSI.
2. ON THE SCANTRON SHEET: Fill in your last name, first initial, and student number in the spaces given and, using pencil, darkly shade in the corresponding bubbles. Then sign the card.
3. For each multiple choice question, mark your answer in pencil on the Scantron card by darkly shading the appropriate bubble. All answers to multiple choice questions must be transferred to the Scantron card. UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES WILL ANSWERS TO MULTIPLE CHOICE QUESTIONS WRITTEN ON THIS PAPER BE ACCEPTED FOR MARKS.
4. Answer short answer questions in the spaces provided.
5. Answers to short-answer questions which are written in pencil will not be re-marked.
6. Mark values are indicated with each question.
7. Make sure that your exam paper has 19 pages.
       Question
   Marks
  A1-A50
    /50
  B1
  /6
  B2
    /6
  B3
  /5
  B4
    /4
  B5
  /5
  B6
    /5
  B7
  /4
  Total
    /85
     AST101H1F FINAL EXAM, DECEMBER 2012 PAGE 1 OF 19

PART A: For each question, choose the MOST CORRECT answer and TRANSFER YOUR ANSWERS TO THE SCANTRON SHEET WHEN YOU ARE DONE (1 mark each)
1. The spectra of most distant galaxies show redshifts. That means that their spectral lines:
(a) are brighter in the red part of the spectrum
(b) have energies which are higher than normal
(c) are all located in the red part of the spectrum
(d) are observed at wavelengths that are longer than normal *
2. The difference between fusion and fission is that:
(a) fusion always releases energy while fission always consumes it
(b) fission always releases energy while fusion always consumes it
(c) fission is the splitting of nuclei while fusion is the joining of nuclei *
(d) fission converts protons into neutrons while fusion converts neutrons into protons
3. Interstellar dust clouds emit mainly infrared light. Why can't we see this light in the sky with our naked eyes?
(a) Our eyes are not big enough to resolve infrared light.
(b) Our galaxy is unusually free of dust.
(c) Earth's atmosphere absorbs 100% of incoming infrared light.
(d) Our eyes are not sensitive to infrared light. *
(e) Infrared light is damaging to the eye, so we should never look at it directly.
4. Why does the Sun appear almost white to our eyes?
(a) Because the Sun is mainly emitting white wavelengths of light.
(b) Because the Sun is emitting a few emission lines of green light, a few of blue, and a few of
red; our eye combines them all to make white light.
(c) Because the Sun is emitting approximately equal amounts of nearly every colour of visible
light. *
(d) Because the Sun is very bright, and very bright things always appear whitish to the eye.
5. Compared to jovian planets, we should expect terrestrial planets to have:
(a) thicker atmospheres
(b) higher masses
(c) fewer rings *
(d) higher proportions of helium
(e) moons with higher orbital inclinations
   AST101H1F FINAL EXAM, DECEMBER 2012
PAGE 2 OF 19

6. Compared to X-rays, radio waves have:
(a) higher frequency and lower energy (b) lower frequency and higher energy (c) lower frequency and lower energy * (d) higher frequency and higher energy
7. Which of these pairs of objects are closest to one another in overall chemical composition?
(a) the atmosphere of Venus and the outermost layers of Jupiter (b) the core of Earth and a Kuiper Belt object
(c) the crust of Earth and the crust of the Moon *
(d) the atmosphere of Earth and the atmosphere of Mars
(e) the surface of Mercury and the surface of Jupiter's moon, Io
8. Recently, astronomers announced the discovery of a terrestrial planet orbiting the star Alpha Centauri B, which is about 4 light years from the Sun. What can we conclude from this information?
(a) Alpha Centauri is not part of the Milky Way.
(b) It would take the space shuttle almost 400 years to get to Alpha Centauri.
(c) Alpha Centauri must be a Sun-like star.
(d) Any intelligent lifeforms on the newly-discovered planet could already be listening to our
radio transmissions. *
(e) It would be impossible to take a picture of this planet using a telescope situated on Earth.
9. When Felix Baumgartner stepped off the platform hanging from his high-altitude balloon, he fell to Earth. However, when an astronaut steps out of the International Space Station, she doesn't fall. Why?
(a) The space station is much higher than the balloon, where gravity is much weaker. (b) The space station is in free-fall, but the balloon was not.
(c) The space station is in orbit around the Earth, but the balloon was not. *
(d) The astronaut doesn't have to deal with air resistance, but Felix did.
(e) The astronaut uses a jet pack, but Felix used a parachute.
10. Roughly how many constellations of the zodiac does the Sun move through in six months?
(a) none (b) 2
(c) 3
(d) 6 * (e) 12
AST101H1F FINAL EXAM, DECEMBER 2012
PAGE 3 OF 19

11. How many third-quarter moons should we see in an average year?
(a) 1 (b) 3 (c) 4 (d) 10 (e) 12 *
12. When someone in Thunder Bay (longitude 89 degrees W) sees a full moon, what phase will someone in Paris (longitude 2 degrees W) see at the same time?
(a) full *
(b) first-quarter (c) new
(d) third-quarter
13. When you wear a blue shirt, why does it look blue?
(a) it is emitting blue light
(b) it is reflecting mainly blue light * (c) it is absorbing mainly blue light (d) it is transmitting mainly blue light (e) it is very cold
14. All of the following statements are true. Which one explains why there isn't a solar eclipse at every new Moon?
(a) The Moon is the primary cause of tides on Earth.
(b) The orbital plane of the Moon is tilted by about 5 degrees to the ecliptic plane. * (c) The Moon rotates synchronously with its revolution about Earth.
(d) The sidereal month is shorter than the lunar month.
(e) The nodes of the Moon's orbit precess with an 18-year period.
15. Which of the following is NOT implied by Kepler's Laws of planetary motion?
(a) Uranus should take less time to orbit the Sun than Neptune does. (b) The orbit of Earth should be an ellipse.
(c) Mercury moves fastest in its orbit when it is closest to the Sun. (d) Planetary orbits are all close to circular. *
(e) Each planet orbits with the Sun at one focus of its orbit.
 AST101H1F FINAL EXAM, DECEMBER 2012
PAGE 4 OF 19

16. Which of the following statements is both true AND falsifiable?
(a) Earth is the smallest planet in the solar system.
(b) The Moon looks nicest when it is full.
(c) The highest tides occur during first-quarter and third-quarter moons. (d) Jupiter has planetary rings which are not as bright as Saturn's. *
(e) Mars used to support life.
17. Which of the following emits a continuous spectrum of light?
(a) a tube of hydrogen gas heated to 2000 K
(b) the metal filament of an incandescent light bulb *
(c) a fluorescent light bulb, which works by exciting a gas (d) a laser
(e) the microwave-emitting device in a microwave oven
18. Betelgeuse is a bright red star in the constellation of Orion, easily visible to the naked eye. Which of the following can you conclude based only on Betelgeuse's red colour?
(a) Betelgeuse's surface is cooler than that of the Sun. * (b) Betelgeuse is much brighter than the Sun.
(c) Betelgeuse is moving away from us very rapidly. (d) Betelgeuse is much more massive than the Sun.
(e) Betelgeuse is emitting far more high-energy light than the Sun is.
19. Laboratory measurements show that a sample of a particular gas shows a spectral line at a wavelength of 424 nanometers. If we observe a nearby galaxy and find the same spectral line at a wavelength of 421 nanometers, what can we conclude?
(a) The galaxy is moving toward us. *
(b) The galaxy is moving away from us.
(c) The galaxy is hotter than the laboratory sample of hydrogen. (d) The galaxy is colder than the laboratory sample of hydrogen. (e) The galaxy is very young.
20. If the redshift of star A is 10% greater than that of star B, what can you conclude about the two stars? (Assume the redshifts of both stars are positive.)
(a) Star A is moving away from us slower than star B (b) Star A is moving toward us slower than star B.
(c) Star A is moving toward us faster than star B.
(d) Star A is moving away from us faster than star B. * (e) Either (b) or (d).
 AST101H1F FINAL EXAM, DECEMBER 2012
PAGE 5 OF 19

21. Suppose we discover a planet orbiting a distant star. Which of the following measurements would allow us to determine the chemical composition of the planet's atmosphere most accurately?
(a) Taking the spectrum of the star the planet orbits.
(b) Carefully measuring the overall colour of the planet.
(c) Measuring the redshift and blueshift of the planet as it orbits the star.
(d) Taking the spectrum of the planet's atmosphere. *
(e) Bouncing radio waves off the planet and gathering the reflected light to look for absorption
lines.
22. The cores of terrestrial planets are mostly made of metals such as iron and nickel, while their crusts tend to be made of lighter elements, such as silicon and oxygen. Why?
(a) over billions of years, convection carries metals to the cores of terrestrial planets
(b) terrestrial worlds are made almost entirely of these metals, so it is natural to find them in
large quantities in their cores
(c) the cores of terrestrial planets contain radioactive elements which produce these metals
(d) collisions of asteroids with terrestrial planets have enriched their surfaces with lighter
elements
(e) heavier elements tended to sink to the centres of terrestrial planets, back when they were
molten *
23. Which of the following most accurately describes the structure of planets like Jupiter and Saturn?
(a) A large rock surrounded by thin layers of liquid and gas.
(b) A small rock surrounded by a thin layer of liquid and a thick layer of gas. (c) A large rock surrounded by a thick layer of gas.
(d) A small rock surrounded by a thick layer of gas.
(e) A small rock surrounded by a thick layer of liquid and a thick layer of gas. *
24. Planets like Mercury show evidence of heavy bombardment by meteors while planets like Earth and Venus do not. Why not?
(a) Mercury orbits in a part of the solar system rich with asteroids; Earth and Venus do not.
(b) Mercury has neither plate tectonics nor volcanoes to erase its craters; Earth and Venus do. *
(c) Mercury has no atmosphere to shield it from meteors; Earth and Venus do.
(d) Mercury has no magnetic field to deflect small meteors; Earth and Venus do.
(e) Mercury has a powdery surface which craters easily; Earth and Venus are made of sturdier
rock.
AST101H1F FINAL EXAM, DECEMBER 2012 PAGE 6 OF 19

25. Roughly how often is Earth (surface or atmosphere) hit by impactors capable of producing Hiroshima-scale explosions?
(a) about once a year *
(b) about once every thousand (1000) years
(c) about once every million years (1,000,000) years
(d) about once every hundred million (100,000,000) years (e) Earth has never been hit by such an impactor
26. The chemical composition of Jupiter is closest to that of:
(a) Earth
(b) the Moon (c) Pluto
(d) the Sun * (e) a comet
27. What is the main mechanism by which planets lose heat to space?
(a) radiation *
(b) convection with the interstellar medium (c) radioactivity
(d) conduction with the interstellar medium (e) differentiation
28. Which of the following factors is MOST responsible for determining whether a terrestrial planet will be geologically active?
(a) the strength of its magnetic field (b) its chemical composition
(c) the thickness of its atmosphere (d) its size *
(e) its distance from the Sun
29. Why should we be surprised to find that Mercury has a magnetic field?
(a) Mercury was not thought to contain magnetic minerals.
(b) Mercury's interior was thought to have solidified long ago. *
(c) Mercury has no atmosphere to generate a magnetic field.
(d) Mercury is tidally locked to the Sun, so it can't rotate and generate a magnetic field.
(e) Heavy bombardment by asteroids should have disrupted Mercury's magnetic field long ago.
AST101H1F FINAL EXAM, DECEMBER 2012 PAGE 7 OF 19

30. Earth has a very active carbon cycle which keeps its atmosphere free of excess carbon, while Venus does not. Why doesn't Venus have a carbon cycle?
(a) Venus does not have continuous plate tectonics to help return carbon to its interior. (b) Venus' atmosphere is acidic and carbon won't dissolve in acid.
(c) Venus has no oceans to trap carbon.
(d) Venus doesn't have enough carbon to have a carbon cycle.
(e) Both (a) and (c). *
31. Volcanoes on Earth are constantly pumping CO2 into the atmosphere. What happens to that CO2 to prevent it from building up over long (million-year) timescales?
(a) It dissolves into water vapour in the air, rains into the oceans, is turned into rock, and carried back into the Earth by plate tectonics. *
(b) It is heated by ultraviolet rays from the Sun and broken apart into C and O2. The light C atoms escape into space and the O2 is breathed by animals.
(c) It is absorbed by rocks on Earth's continents and reacts with them chemically to become oil and natural gas.
(d) It is absorbed by plants, which then die and become fossils, recycling the carbon back into the ground.
(e) It reacts with chemicals such as nitrogen and sulphur in Earth's atmosphere and produces acid rain.
32. On Venus, the runaway greenhouse effect has occurred despite the absence of humans on the planet. Why, then, do we think global warming on Earth is caused by human activity?
(a) Because the temperature increase is highest on the parts of the planet where there are a lot of people.
(b) Because the temperature has begun to increase in proportion to the size of the hole in our ozone layer, which itself correlates strongly with the release of ozone-depleting chemicals made by humans.
(c) Because global warming has gotten worse a lot faster in the last decade.
(d) Because the temperature increase correlates strongly with the increase in human production
of greenhouse gases. *
(e) Because as the total population of the Earth goes up, so does its average temperature.
33. Several pieces of evidence suggest that water was once abundant on Mars. Which of the following discoveries has not actually been made yet?
(a) channels cut into the surface of Mars which appear to have been carved by water (b) the presence of water frozen into the soil on Mars
(c) the presence of ice caps on Mars
(d) deposits of ice found in the bottoms of deep craters
(e) underground streams on Mars *
AST101H1F FINAL EXAM, DECEMBER 2012 PAGE 8 OF 19

34. Imagine that a new planet is discovered orbiting a star (not the Sun). This star is almost exactly like the Sun and the planet orbits it at 1 AU. This planet is found to be about half the mass of Earth. From this information, we can conclude that the planet is likely:
(a) to be completely free of water. (b) to have a thin atmosphere. *
(c) to be extremely hot.
(d) to be highly geologically active. (e) to support life.
35. If you were to stand at the North Pole at the instant of the summer solstice, you could see:
(a) all of the stars on the celestial sphere.
(b) about three-quarters of the stars on the celestial sphere.
(c) about half of the stars on the celestial sphere.
(d) about a quarter of the stars on the celestial sphere.
(e) none of the stars on the celestial sphere (except the Sun) because it would be day time. *
36. Most of the Sun's energy is produced by:
(a) combustion (b) fusion *
(c) diffusion (d) fission
(e) differentiation
37. Light takes about 8 minutes to go from the surface of the Sun to the Earth. How long does it take to travel from the core of the Sun to the surface of the Sun?
(a) about a second
(b) about a minute
(c) about 8 minutes
(d) more than an hour
(e) hundreds of thousands of years *
38. Which of the following equations best explains how the Sun generates energy?
(a)E=mc2 * (b) F = GMm/r2 (c) P2 = a3
(d) F=ma
(e) E = GMm/r
 AST101H1F FINAL EXAM, DECEMBER 2012
PAGE 9 OF 19

39. What would eventually happen if the Sun's core were suddenly heated slightly above its current temperature?
(a) The density of the core would decrease, causing the core to cool down and expand until it stabilized at a new, larger size.
(b) The core would heat up, causing it to release so much energy that it would shrink even more.
(c) The core would first expand and cool off and be heated less by nuclear reactions; then it would slowly contract and heat up to its current size and temperature. *
(d) The core would cool, the pressure would fall, and gravity would crush the core until it became a black hole.
(e) The expansion of the core would mean it would generate more energy overall, causing the Sun to become a red giant.
40. Fifty (50) AU is closest to:
(a) the distance between the Sun and the next star
(b) the distance between the Sun and the center of our galaxy (c) the distance between Mercury and Saturn
(d) the distance between the Sun and Neptune *
(e) the distance between the Milky Way and Andromeda
41. The lowest of the low tides occurs when the phase of the Moon is:
(a) full
(b) waxing gibbous (c) crescent
(d) third quarter * (e) new
42. The current number of confirmed exoplanets is closest to:
(a) 0
(b) 10
(c) 1000 *
(d) 1,000,000 (e) 100,000,000
43. The main asteroid belt is best described as:
(a) material left over from the formation of the solar system * (b) a band of rocks orbiting between Jupiter and Saturn
(c) a ring of asteroids orbiting just beyond the orbit of Neptune (d) a cloud of asteroids surrounding the whole solar system
(e) the source of short-period comets
 AST101H1F FINAL EXAM, DECEMBER 2012
PAGE 10 OF 19

44. The Doppler method for finding exoplanets is least efficient at finding:
(a) low-mass planets with long orbital periods * (b) low-mass planets with short orbital periods (c) massive planets with short orbital periods (d) massive planets with long orbital periods
45. Earth's moon was probably formed by:
(a) Direct capture of the Moon by the Earth's gravity.
(b) A catastrophic collision of the early Earth with a planet-sized object. *
(c) Fission of a spinning body condensing from the early protosolar nebula. (d) Accretion of comets onto a small captured asteroid.
(e) Fission of the young Earth, which split because it was spinning so quickly.
46. Which of the following correctly describes the strategy astronomers currently use when looking for extraterrestrial life?
(a) Follow the water *
(b) Organics and ice make biochemistry nice (c) Turn over every rock
(d) Look for the fungus among us
(e) Shoot first, ask questions later
47. Most observatories designed to detect signals from space are built in space or on the surface of the Earth. Which of the following is typically detected using observatories underground?
(a) gamma rays (b) neutrinos * (c) anti-matter (d) X-rays
(e) solar wind
48. Samples of rock brought back from the surface of another object in our solar system are analysed using radiometric dating. The rocks were found all of the surface of the object. It is found that a certain element in these rocks has decayed until there is only one-sixteenth (1/16) of the original amount remaining. If the half-life of the original element is 100 million years, which object are these rocks likely from?
(a) Mars
(b) Venus *
(c) Mercury
(d) the Moon
(e) the asteroid Eros
 AST101H1F FINAL EXAM, DECEMBER 2012
PAGE 11 OF 19

49. Which of the following best explains why jovian moons have been more geologically active than the Moon or Mercury?
(a) Because of their greater distances from the Sun, the jovian moons receive much less heat from the Sun.
(b) The jovian moons probably have far more internal heat generated by radioactive decay than do the Moon or Mercury.
(c) The jovian moons are considerably larger than the Moon and Mercury and therefore have retained much more internal heat.
(d) Jovian moons are made mostly of ice that, when tidally heated, can melt or deform at lower temperatures than can the rock and metal that make up the Moon and Mercury. *
50. Where on Earth would you have to stand to see the whole celestial sphere at night over the course of a year? Assume that you can stand on top of a mountain without nothing blocking your horizon.
(a) at the North Pole
(b) anywhere within the Arctic Circle
(c) on the equator *
(d) somewhere on a very tall mountain, such as Hawaii, Chile, or Tibet
(e) nowhere—it's not possible to see the whole celestial sphere from a single point on Earth
within 24 hours
All answers to Part A questions MUST be transferred to the scantron sheet to count for marks.
 AST101H1F FINAL EXAM, DECEMBER 2012 PAGE 12 OF 19

PART B: Short answer questions. Answer ALL of the following questions in the spaces provided. Point form is acceptable where appropriate. Marks may be deducted for lack of clarity or concision.
1. The formation of the solar system.
(a) [3 marks] Name three separate observations about our solar system which suggest that it
formed from a rotating disk of material.
MANY POSSIBLE ANSWERS, INCLUDING: ALL PLANETS ORBIT IN THE SAME PLANE; ALL PLANETS ORBIT IN THE SAME SENSE; ALL PLANETS ROTATE IN THE SAME SENSE; PLANETARY ECCENTRICITIES ARE GENERALLY VERY LOW
(b) [1 mark] Two planets—Venus and Uranus—have properties which appear to challenge our nebular theory for the formation of the solar system. Pick ONE of these planets. Identify its anomalous property and how it can be accounted for by the nebular theory.
VENUS—ROTATES VERY SLOWLY AND RETROGRADE URANUS—ROTATION AXIS IS IN THE PLANE OF ITS ORBIT
IN BOTH CASES, THE SUGGESTED EXPLANATION IS AN IMPACT WITH A PLANETESSIMAL DURING THE ACCRETION PHASE IN THE EARLY SOLAR SYSTEM.
       (c) [2 marks] Imagine astronomers find a solar system with a Sun-like star and three planets: a jovian planet orbiting at 0.8 AU, a terrestrial planet orbiting at 2.2 AU, and a dwarf planet orbiting at 6.0 AU. Would such a solar system support or challenge the nebular theory? Explain your reasoning.
SUCH A PLANET WOULD CHALLENGE THE NEBULAR THEORY ON SEVERAL COUNTS: JOVIAN PLANETS SHOULD NOT BE ABLE TO FORM SO FAR INSIDE THE FROST LINE AND, IF THEY INSTEAD MIGRATED IN, THEY SHOULD DISPLACE OTHER PLANETS
AST101H1F FINAL EXAM, DECEMBER 2012 PAGE 13 OF 19

2. Spectroscopy.
(a) [2 marks] Describe the steps involved in determining the chemical composition of a
celestial object which is too far away to be reached by spacecraft.
ESSENTIAL STEPS ARE:
RECORD SPECTRUM OF LIGHT COMING FROM THE OBJECT USING A SPECTROGRAPH
IDENTIFY SPECTRAL LINES
COMPARE SPECTRAL LINES TO A CATALOG OF KNOWN LINES TO DETERMINE THE ELEMENTS FROM WHICH THEY ORIGINATE
(b) [4 marks] Draw the electron energy level diagram for an atom which is capable of producing a total of ten spectral lines. Your diagram should be CLEARLY LABELLED and should include all of the following:
i. [0.5 mark] the energy levels; label the one with the lowest energy
ii. [1.5 marks] the set of ten electron transitions which correspond to the emission of light
(these should be drawn with ten separate arrows)
iii. [1 mark] the transition which would emit light of the highest frequency (label one of
your arrows from part ii)
iv. [1 mark] the transition would absorb light of the lowest energy (draw and label an
arrow)
DIAGRAM SHOULD HAVE FIVE HORIZONTAL LINES, WITH THE LOWEST ONE LABELED AS THE LOWEST ENERGY. LINES SHOULD BE MORE CLOSELY SPACED TOWARD THE TOP OF THE DIAGRAM. TEN VERTICAL LINES SHOULD CONNECT ALL POSSIBLE PAIRS OF HORIZONTALLINES. HIGHESTFREQUENCYEMISSIONTRANSITIONIS DOWNWARD-POINTING ARROW BETWEEN BOTTOM AND TOP HORIZONTAL LINES AND LOWEST ENERGY ABSORPTION IS UPWARD- POINTING ARROW BETWEEN THE TWO MOST CLOSELY SPACED LINES (TWO TOP ONES).
      AST101H1F FINAL EXAM, DECEMBER 2012 PAGE 14 OF 19

3. Exoplanets.
(a) [2 marks] Imagine that scientists announce the discovery of planet with the properties listed
below. Comment on the likelihood that this planet could support life like the kinds we find on Earth. Your answer should make specific reference to the properties of the planet.
i. orbits a Sun-like star which is about 3 billion years old
ii. orbits the star at 1.1 AU
iii. has a diameter twice that of Earth
iv. has an atmosphere which is 70% carbon dioxide
SUCH A PLANET IS UNLIKELY TO BE ABLE TO SUPPORT LIFE. ITS STAR SHOULD BE ABOUT AS WARM AS THE SUN AND IT IS AT A TEMPERATE DISTANCE FROM THE STAR (WITHIN THE HABITABLE ZONE). HOWEVER, THE PLANET IS LARGE AND THEREFORE LIKELY TO BE VERY VOLCANICALLY ACTIVE. THE DENSITY OF ITS ATMOSPHERE IS NOT SPECIFIED, SO IT'S HARD TO SAY WHETHER THE PLANET WOULD BE COLD (LIKE MARS) OR HOT (LIKE VENUS), BOTH OF WHICH HAVE ATMOSPHERES WHICH ARE APPROXIMATELY 95% CO2.
(b) [1 marks] Describe one method we could use to check for the existence of life on the planet described in part (a). Your method should only rely on current technology.
THERE ARE MANY POSSIBLE ANSWERS. ONE IS TO USE A RADIO TELESCOPE TO CHECK FOR SIGNALS FROM INTELLIGENT LIFE ON THE PLANET.
(c) [2 marks] Describe how, using current technology, we can measure the physical size (radius or diameter) of an exoplanet orbiting a star 70 light years from the Sun.
BY TIMING THE PERIOD BETWEEN FIRST AND SECOND CONTACT DURING AN EXOPLANETARY TRANSIT AND COMBINING THIS INFORMATION WITH THE PLANET'S ORBITAL PERIOD (AND HENCE ORBITAL SEMIMAJOR AXIS), WE CAN MEASURE THE DIAMETER OF THE PLANET.
 AST101H1F FINAL EXAM, DECEMBER 2012 PAGE 15 OF 19

4. Imagine that astronomers observing a star find that a portion of its spectrum looks as shown below (day 0). The same portion of the spectrum of the same object is shown three and nine days later. This whole sequence repeats every 12 days.
(a) [1 mark] What could be causing the star's spectrum to change in this way? Be as specific as possible.
THE STAR COULD BE ORBITED BY AN UNSEEN BODY WITH A PERIOD OF 12 DAYS.
(b) [3 marks] Draw a CLEARLY LABELLED diagram showing the physical process or situation which is causing the spectrum to change in this way. Make sure that your diagram accounts for why the pattern repeats every 12 days. You may need to include a few sentences of explanation.
THE DIAGRAM SHOULD SHOW THE STAR BEING ORBITED BY AN UNSEEN BODY WHICH IS MOVING AWAY FROM US ON DAY 3, TOWARD US ON DAY 9, AND TANGENTIAL TO OUR LINE OF SIGHT ON DAYS 0 AND 6.
  AST101H1F FINAL EXAM, DECEMBER 2012 PAGE 16 OF 19

5. Orbits.
(a) [2 marks] The large circle below represents the Earth. The black dot represents the point
from which an object is thrown in the direction shown. On the diagram, draw and CLEARLY LAB EL the following possible orbits of this object, always starting from the position shown. Assume that the object being thrown is the same in all cases and that it is being thrown from the same altitude in all cases. Draw all of your diagrams assuming that we are looking at the orbit of the object from a top-down perspective (i.e. from the North Celestial Pole).
i. an elliptical orbit whose apogee (farthest excursion from Earth) is at the starting point
ii. an elliptical orbit whose perigee (closest approach to Earth) is at the starting point
iii. the orbit of an object whose orbit is unbound iv. an object in a circular orbit
    (b) [2 marks] For each of the cases from part (a), state the allowed range of speeds for an object in this type of orbit. Express your answers in terms of the relevant “boundary” speeds, such as the minimum speed required to orbit.
I. VORBITAL < V < VCIRCULAR II. VCIRCUALR < V < VESCAPE III. V >= VESCAPE
IV. V = VCIRCULAR
AST101H1F FINAL EXAM, DECEMBER 2012
PAGE 17 OF 19

(c) [1 mark] In which of the cases from part (a) is the object in free-fall? Justify your answer.
THE OBJECT IS IN FREE-FALL IN ALL CASES AS, IN EACH CASE, THE ONLY FORCE ACTING ON IT IS GRAVITY.
6. Fermi's Paradox.
(a) [2 marks] In your own words, state Fermi's Paradox.
FERMI'S PARADOX STATES THAT ANY INTELLIGENT EXTRATERRESTRIAL SPECIES OUGHT TO HAVE EVOLVED TO INTELLIGENCE MILLIONS OR BILLIONS OF YEARS BEFORE HUMANS DID. IF SUCH A SPECIES COULD ACHIEVE SLOW SPACE TRAVEL (AT 0.1C) IT COULD CROSS THE GALAXY EVERY MILLION YEARS OR SO. HAVING HAD MANY SUCH OPPORTUNITIES TO CROSS—AND COLONIZE—THE GALAXY, WE ARE LEFT WITH THE PARADOX THAT THIS HAS APPARENTLY NOT HAPPENED.
(b) [3 marks] State three possible resolutions to the paradox. Each resolution should be independent of the others. Be concise.
THERE IS NO EXTRATERRESTRIAL INTELLIGENT LIFE.
ET INTELLIGENCES ARE NOT INTERESTED IN SPACE TRAVEL.
ET INTELLIGENCES DELIBERATELY MASK THEIR PRESENCE FROM US.
7. Lookback time.
(a) [2 marks] Astronomers say that looking far away also means looking far back in time.
Explain what is meant by this claim—how can it be possible to look back in time? You might wish to use a diagram, but this is not required for full marks.
LIGHT TRAVELS AT A FINITE SPEED. THEREFORE, THE LIGHT WE SEE COMING FROM CELESTIAL OBJECTS HAS TAKEN TIME TO GET TO US. THEREFORE, WE SEE OBJECTS NOT AS THEY ARE NOW, BUT AS THEY WERE WHEN THE LIGHT WE NOW SEE LEFT THEM.
(b) [1 mark] How can this effect be used to study the history of the universe as a whole?
BY STUDYING THE UNIVERSE AT GREATER AND GREATER DISTANCES, WE
CAN STUDY IT AT EARLIER AND EARLIER EPOCHS.
 AST101H1F FINAL EXAM, DECEMBER 2012 PAGE 18 OF 19

(c) [1 mark] Could this effect (and present-day technology) be used to see back in time and watch the formation of the Sun? Why or why not?
THIS EFFECT CANNOT BE USED TO SEE THE FORMATION HISTORY OF THE SUN. THE SUN IS EIGHT LIGHT MINUTES AWAY, SO WE CAN ONLY SEE IT EIGHT MINUTES INTO THE PAST . TO SEE MORE DISTANTLY INTO THE PAST OF THE SUN, WE WOULD HAVE TO TRAVEL FASTER THAN THE SPEED OF LIGHT TO OVERTAKE THE LIGHT IT SENT OUT BILLIONS OF YEARS AGO.
THE END
AST101H1F FINAL EXAM, DECEMBER 2012 PAGE 19 OF 19

UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO Faculty of Arts and Science
DECEMBER 2013 EXAMINATIONS AST101H1F
Duration – 3 hours No Aids Allowed
NAME: __________________________________ UTORID: (e.g.smitha4) __________________ STUDENT NUMBER: _____________________
Instructions:
1. ON THIS PAGE: Fill in your identifying information above. Make sure you fill in your name AS IT APPEARS ON ROSI.
2. ON THE SCANTRON SHEET: Fill in your last name, first initial, and student number in the spaces given and, using pencil, darkly shade in the corresponding bubbles. Then sign the card.
3. For each multiple choice question, mark your answer in pencil on the Scantron card by darkly shading the appropriate bubble. All answers to multiple choice questions must be transferred to the Scantron card. UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES WILL ANSWERS TO MULTIPLE CHOICE QUESTIONS WRITTEN ON THIS PAPER BE ACCEPTED FOR MARKS.
4. Answer short answer questions in the spaces provided.
5. Answers to short-answer questions which are written in pencil will not be re-marked.
6. Mark values are indicated with each question.
7. Make sure that your exam paper has 16 pages.
8. This exam is out of a TOTAL OF 71 MARKS.
      AST101H1F FINAL EXAM, DECEMBER 2013 PAGE 1 OF 16

PART A: For each question, choose the MOST CORRECT answer and TRANSFER YOUR ANSWERS TO THE SCANTRON SHEET WHEN YOU ARE DONE (1 mark each)
1. If Venus orbited Saturn, Venus would be considered:
a) a planet
b) a dwarf planet c) a moon*
d) a dwarf moon e) a planetesimal
2. Compared to the distance between the Sun and the Earth, the distance between the Earth and the nearest star (other than the Sun) is approximately:
a) 30 times larger
b) 3000 times larger
c) 300,000 times larger *
d) 30,000,000 times larger
e) 3,000,000,000 times larger
3. Imagine we send a radio signal to a star 1000 light years away. Imagine also that the star is orbited by a planet which is home to intelligent life. What is the earliest possible time at which we could hope for a response?
a) almost immediately, if the aliens were fast in sending their reply
b) several months from now
c) a few years from now
d) thousands of years from now *
e) millions of years from now
4. Which of the following discoveries would present the biggest challenge to the nebular model of solar system formation?
a) a planet half the size of Neptune orbiting in our own solar system at three times the distance of Neptune’s orbit
b) a solar system in which a gas giant twice the size of Jupiter orbited the star in the opposite direction to the rest of the planets in that system *
c) a solar system with a small terrestrial planet orbiting the star between the orbits of two gas giants
d) a solar system with several dozen dwarf planets
e) a small new moon of Jupiter which is orbiting in the opposite direction to Jupiter’s four
largest moons
  AST101H1F FINAL EXAM, DECEMBER 2013 PAGE 2 OF 16

5. Compared to the average distance between the Sun and Mercury, the average distance between
the
a) b) c) d) e)
6. In
Sun and Neptune is approximately:
80 times smaller 8 times smaller about the same 8 times larger 80 times larger *
what way are Venus and Earth most similar?
a) they are nearly the same size *
b) they have similar atmospheres
c) they have similar patterns of seasons
d) their days are both about 24 hours
e) their surfaces look very similar to one another
7. Imagine that you could take a rocket and fly far from Earth in the direction of the North Celestial Pole. If you were to turn around and look back at the Earth, what fraction of its surface could you see (assume you can ‘see’ both dark and illuminated portions)?
a) one quarter
b) one third
c) half *
d) three quarters
e) all of it
8. Suppose that you see a crescent Moon tonight while looking at the sky from Toronto. What phase of the Moon would someone living in China see on the same night? Remember that China is well North of the equator
a) full
b) quarter
c) crescent *
d) new
e) waxing gibbous
9. From the perspective of someone living on the Moon, how often does the SUN rise above the Moon’s horizon?
a) never
b) about every 24 hrs
c) about once per week
d) about once per month *
e) about once per year
 AST101H1F FINAL EXAM, DECEMBER 2013
PAGE 3 OF 16

10. From the perspective of someone living on the Moon, how often does the EARTH rise above the Moon’s horizon?
a) never *
b) about every 24 hours
c) about once per week
d) about once per month
e) about once per year
11. Which of the following motion diagrams correctly represents a moon (indicated by the small dot) orbiting a planet (indicated by the large dot) in accordance with Kepler’s laws? Remember that, in a motion diagram, all of the points are spaced at equal time intervals. The diagrams are seen directly from above, so that the moon is orbiting on the plane of the paper.
(a) (b) (c) (d) (e)
12. Compared to the force of gravity the Earth exerts on you, the force of gravity you exert the Earth is:
a) much smaller
b) a little smaller
c) the same *
d) a little larger
e) much larger
13. Why does Mars have such a thin atmosphere?
a) Mars has no volcanoes.
b) Mars formed outside the frost line.
c) Mars has low surface gravity. *
d) Mars is too hot to have an atmosphere.
e) Mars is too old to have an atmosphere.
                                                                          AST101H1F FINAL EXAM, DECEMBER 2013
PAGE 4 OF 16

14. Why are there tidal bulges on BOTH sides of Earth’s oceans?
a) The Sun creates one of the bulges and the Moon creates the other bulge.
b) The Moon’s gravity pulls on one side of the Earth and, after orbiting around for 12 hours,
the Moon’s gravity pulls on the other side of the Earth.
c) The rotation of the Earth causes it to bulge around the equator, and this occurs on both
sides.
d) Both sides of the Earth experience a different amount of gravity from the Moon than the
center of Earth. *
e) The Moon’s gravity raises a tidal bulge on the Moon-facing side of the Earth, but the
rotation of the Earth carries this bulge around to the far side of the Moon.
15. At which lunar phase(s) are tides most pronounced (i.e., the highest high tides)?
a) first quarter
b) new Moon
c) full Moon
d) both new and full Moons *
e) both first and third quarters
16. Most of the energy we receive from the Sun was produced:
a) through chemical reactions taking place within the Sun
b) through nuclear reactions in the Sun’s core *
c) in the Sun’s photosphere
d) uniformly throughout the entire Sun
e) from radioactive elements created in the Big Bang
17. To produce an absorption spectrum, two objects must be present. What are they?
a) a hot, dense object and a cooler thin gas *
b) an emission spectrum and a continuous spectrum
c) a source of infrared light and a cool thin gas
d) a hot thin gas and a different cold thin gas at a different temperature
e) a source of electromagnetic radiation and a thick gas
18. Atoms of different elements have unique spectral lines because each element
a) has atoms of unique colour
b) has a unique set of neutrons
c) has a unique set of electron orbits *
d) vibrates with a certain frequency
e) has atoms of unique wavelengths
 AST101H1F FINAL EXAM, DECEMBER 2013
PAGE 5 OF 16

19. Imagine you have two different hot, low-density gases, both along your line of sight. For example, one could be a cloud of hydrogen and another a cloud of helium. If you observe the first gas through the second gas, what would you detect with a spectrograph?
a) an absorption spectrum
b) an emission spectrum *
c) a continuous spectrum
d) a continuous spectrum with absorption lines
e) a combination of emission and absorption spectra
20. A star emitting a continuous spectrum shines through a cool interstellar cloud composed primarily of hydrogen. The cloud is falling inward towards the star (and away from Earth). Which best describes the spectrum seen by an observer on Earth?
a) blueshifted hydrogen emission lines
b) blueshifted hydrogen absorption lines
c) redshifted hydrogen emission lines
d) redshifted hydrogen absorption lines *
e) a hydrogen continuum, neither redshifted nor blueshifted
21. Jupiter’s chemical composition is closest to that of which of the following bodies?
a) the Sun *
b) Earth
c) Pluto
d) an asteroid
e) V enus
22. What do we mean by the frost line when we discuss the formation of planets in the solar nebula?
a) It is a circle at a particular distance from the Sun, beyond which the temperature was low enough for ices to condense. *
b) It is another way of stating the temperature at which water freezes into ice.
c) It marks the special distance from the Sun at which hydrogen compounds become abundant;
closer to the Sun, there are no hydrogen compounds.
d) It is the altitude in a planet's atmosphere at which snow can form.
e) It is the distance from the Sun inside of which there can never be a Jovian planet.
23. Which of the following are relatively unchanged remnants from the early period of planet building in the solar system?
a) the moons of Mars
b) asteroids
c) Kuiper belt comets
d) Oort cloud comets
e) all of the above *
AST101H1F FINAL EXAM, DECEMBER 2013
PAGE 6 OF 16

24. What are “greenhouse gases”?
a) gases in the lower atmosphere that absorb solar radiation
b) gases in the lower atmosphere that absorb and emit visible light
c) gases in the lower atmosphere that absorb infrared radiation from Earth *
d) gases in the upper atmosphere that absorb ultraviolet light
e) gases in the lower atmosphere that absorb every frequency of light
25. Rank these five terrestrial worlds in order of size from smallest to largest.
a) Mercury, Venus, Earth, Moon, Mars
b) Mercury, Moon, Venus, Earth, Mars
c) Moon, Mercury, Venus, Earth, Mars
d) Moon, Mercury, Mars, Venus, Earth *
e) Mercury, Moon, Mars, Earth, Venus
26. Which of the following processes is most similar to the process that TRANSPORTS energy from the surface of the Sun to the Earth?
a) the process that produces craters on terrestrial planets
b) the process that makes water boil
c) the process that makes your food hot in a microwave oven *
d) the process that makes your hand hot when you touch a hot stove
e) the process that produces heat in the core of the Earth
27. Heat escapes from a planet's surface into space by thermal radiation. Planets emit radiation almost entirely in the wavelength range of the
a) infrared. *
b) radio.
c) visible.
d) ultraviolet.
e) X-rays.
28. Which of the following best describes why the smaller terrestrial worlds have cooler interiors than the larger ones?
a) They were cooler when they formed.
b) The smaller ones are farther from the Sun, beyond the frost line.
c) They have relatively fewer radioactive elements.
d) They lost heat faster because they have larger surface area to volume ratios. *
e) They had more volcanic eruptions in the past, which released their internal heat.
 AST101H1F FINAL EXAM, DECEMBER 2013 PAGE 7 OF 16

29. Which energy source is the most important in continuing to heat the INTERIORS of terrestrial planets today?
a) accretion
b) differentiation
c) radioactivity *
d) tidal heating
e) greenhouse effect
30. Which of the following bodies is most like our Moon in terms of overall physical properties (size, composition, etc.)?
a) Mercury * b) Jupiter
c) Europa
d) Pluto
e) Neptune
31. If our Moon was in a 3:2 resonance with a more distant moon, what would be the approximate orbital period of this other Moon?
a) 15 days
b) 20 days
c) 45 days *
d) 60 days
e) 90 days
32. Which of the following is a Jovian moon which is thought to contain large quantities of liquid water?
a) Mars
b) Io
c) Titan
d) Pan
e) Europa *
33. The resonance among the moons of Jupiter means that:
a) their orbital semi-major axes are small-integer multiples of one another
b) their orbital periods are small-integer multiples of one another *
c) they all have the same orbital period
d) they all have the same orbital semi-major axis
e) the square of their orbital periods are equal to the cubes of their orbital semi-major axes
 AST101H1F FINAL EXAM, DECEMBER 2013 PAGE 8 OF 16

34. If
the temperature of Earth’s atmosphere were to rise a little bit, what would happen?
a) There would be less rain, so the atmosphere would absorb less carbon dioxide, causing the temperature to fall.
b) More carbon dioxide would dissolve into the oceans, so the temperature would go back down. *
c) Volcanoes would heat up, emit more carbon dioxide, so the temperature would begin a runaway increase.
d) Plate tectonics would speed up, releasing more heat, leading to more volcanoes and a further increase in the temperature.
e) Carbon dioxide would begin to escape from the atmosphere into space, which would cause the temperature to fall.
35. A
orbits its parent star (which is like the Sun) at a distance of 7 AU. Based on comparisons with the planets in our own solar system, which of the following would you NOT expect this planet to have?
a) a ring system
b) large moons
c) seasons
d) a solid surface visible from orbit around the planet *
e) a thick layer of liquid
36. Pluto and Neptune are in a 2:3 resonance. The orbit of Pluto is eccentric and sometimes crosses the orbit of Neptune. Despite their crossing orbits, they have never collided before. Why not?
a) Pluto is so small that, even if it and Neptune came close together, they would never collide.
b) Pluto is no longer considered a planet, so it doesn’t have much effect on large planets such
as Neptune.
c) Their orbital resonance will ensure they are never in the same place at the same time.
d) In fact, Pluto will eventually collide with Neptune, it just hasn’t happened yet.
e) Pluto takes such a long time to orbit the Sun that it has never yet had the opportunity to
collide with Neptune.
37. Compared to the Oort Cloud, the Kuiper Belt:
a) contains more comets and is closer to the Sun
b) is flatter and contains fewer comets *
c) contains fewer comets and extends farther from the Sun
d) is more spherical in shape and contains more comets
e) is flatter and contains more comets
new planet is discovered in another solar system. It is six times the diameter of Earth and
 AST101H1F FINAL EXAM, DECEMBER 2013
PAGE 9 OF 16

38. According to the nebular theory, what are asteroids and comets?
a) shattered remnants of collisions between planetesimals
b) leftover planetesimals that were never incorporated into planets *
c) chunks of rock and ice that condensed long after the planets and moons had formed
d) chunks of rock or ice that were expelled from planets by volcanoes
e) shattered remnants of collisions between planets and moons
39. Which of the following pieces of information CAN be obtained from an observation of an exoplanet using the transit method but CANNOT be obtained using the radial velocity method?
a) An absorption spectrum from the planet’s atmosphere *
b) The planet’s orbital period
c) An estimate of the planet’s mass
d) The length of the planet’s orbital semimajor axis
e) Whether or not the planet is in the habitable zone of its parent star
40. According to Fermi’s Paradox, we might reasonably expect our galaxy to be full of intelligent life because:
a) Since the time of the ancient Greeks, people have believed that the universe was likely full of intelligent life.
b) Life on Earth has existed for as long as the Galaxy has existed.
c) Most civilizations survive for thousands of years.
d) The time it takes to cross the galaxy at small fraction of light speed is much lower than the
age of the Galaxy. *
e) We have already found thousands of habitable exoplanets and probably at least a few
support intelligent life.
41. Which of the following properties of an exoplanet can only be accurately measured by combining observations using both the radial velocity and transit methods?
a) radius
b) age
c) orbital period
d) orbital semimajor axis
e) mass *
42. How was the chemical composition of the Sun different 2 billion years ago from how it is now?
a) it had more hydrogen and less helium *
b) it had more helium and less hydrogen
c) it had more hydrogen and more helium
d) it had less hydrogen and less helium
e) it had the same amount of both hydrogen and helium
AST101H1F FINAL EXAM, DECEMBER 2013
PAGE 10 OF 16

43. The following graph shows the light curve of a nearby star. Assuming that the star is actually orbited by exoplanets and that this can be determined from this graph, how many exoplanets are there in this system?
a) 1 * b) 2 c) 3 d) 4 e) 6
44. Why is the radial velocity method of exoplanet detection biased toward finding “hot Jupiters”?
a) Hot Jupiters are so much hotter than other types of planets that they produce much more light and are therefore easier to see.
b) Hot Jupiters are far more common than any other type of planet, so it’s just a coincidence that we happen to find many of them.
c) Hot Jupiters are massive and orbit close to their parent stars, so their large forces of gravity cause their parent stars to “wobble” more than do the forces from other planets. *
d) Hot Jupiters are larger than most other types of planets, so they block out more light from their parent stars.
e) Hot Jupiters are easier to see because they reflect more light from their parent stars than do other types of planets.
All answers to Part A questions MUST be transferred to the scantron sheet to count for marks.
  AST101H1F FINAL EXAM, DECEMBER 2013 PAGE 11 OF 16

PART B: Short answer questions. Answer ALL of the following questions in the spaces provided. Point form is acceptable where appropriate. Marks may be deducted for lack of clarity or concision.
45. Use the following diagram to answer these questions:
a) [2 marks] If we begin with a sample of pure potassium and we analyze it after FOUR half- lives, what fraction of the original number of potassium atoms will have become argon atoms? Explain BRIEFLY your reasoning.
b) [2 marks] Let’s say that astronauts return from the Moon with a rock taken from its surface. The rock contains equal amounts of potassium and argon. What can you say about the age of this rock compared to the age of the Moon itself and WHY?
       AST101H1F FINAL EXAM, DECEMBER 2013 PAGE 12 OF 16

46. Comparative planetology – climate.
a) [2 marks] The atmospheres of Venus and Mars are both about 95% carbon dioxide, which is
a greenhouse gas, yet Mars and Venus have very different climates. BRIEFLY state two reasons for this difference.
b) [2 marks] Venus is farther from the Sun than Mercury, yet the average surface temperature of Venus is higher than that of Mercury. BRIEFLY explain why.
  47. Comparative planetology – geology.
a) [2 marks] Earth and Mars have similar compositions, but Earth is geologically active while
Mars is geologically inactive. BRIEFLY explain why.
b) [2 marks] Io is similar in size to Mercury, yet Io has active volcanoes while Mercury does not. BRIEFLY explain why.
  AST101H1F FINAL EXAM, DECEMBER 2013 PAGE 13 OF 16

48. [3 marks] Each of the following four diagrams shows the same exoplanetary system being observed from Earth in different configurations. In each diagram, the black dot is the host star and the small circle with the dashed outline is the unseen planet orbiting that star. Arrows in each diagram indicate the direction of motion of the star and planet at each time shown. IN THE TWO BOLD BOXES below each diagram, fill in the LETTER of the corresponding position in the radial velocity graph and the NUMBER of the corresponding spectrum. Make sure that your answers are in agreement with to the ones given beneath the first diagram.
For simplicity, assume that the five lines shown in each spectrum are the only ones emitted by this system anywhere across the electromagnetic spectrum. The dashed lines in the spectra are only there to help you compare them to one another.
RADIAL VELOCITY GRAPH: SPECTRA:
          AST101H1F FINAL EXAM, DECEMBER 2013 PAGE 14 OF 16

49. Kepler’s Laws.
a) [4 marks] Kepler’s three laws state:
First Law: The orbit of each planet around the Sun is an ellipse with the Sun at one focus. Second Law: As a planet moves around its orbit, it sweeps out equal areas in equal times. Third Law: Objects in wider orbits have longer orbital periods.
In each of the BOLD BOXES in the table below, write “FIRST”, “SECOND”, “THIRD”, or “NONE” to indicate which of Kepler’s Laws, if any, explains the given observation. Only put ONE WORD in each box.
Observation Law
A. Moons move faster as they approach the closest point to the planet they orbit
B. Mercury takes less time to orbit the Sun than Neptune does C. Comets slow down as they move far from the Sun
D. Earth and Mars have days of similar lengths
E. Some extrasolar planets move in circular orbits
F. Planets in our solar system all orbit in approximately the same plane
G. The summer in the southern hemisphere of Mars is shorter than the summer in the northern hemisphere
H. “Hot Jupiters” in other solar systems take less time to orbit their stars than Jupiter takes to orbit the Sun
b) [2 marks] BRIEFLY EXPLAIN your reasoning for your answer to EITHER G or H from the above table.
Circle the item you are explaining: G H
                                                                                 AST101H1F FINAL EXAM, DECEMBER 2013
PAGE 15 OF 16

50. Imagine that scientists announce the discovery of a planet with the properties listed below.
i. orbits a Sun-like star that is about 8 billion years old
ii. orbits that star in a circular orbit with a semi-major axis of 1.5 AU
iii. has a diameter 50% that of Earth
iv. has an atmosphere which is 95% carbon dioxide
v. has an axis tilt of 10 degrees (relative to a line drawn perpendicular to its orbital plane)
Answer the following questions, making SPECIFIC REFERENCE to the properties above.
a) [2 marks] WHAT would be this planet’s likely level of geological activity and WHY?
b) [2 marks] WHAT would be this planet’s surface temperature be like (i.e. hot, cold, temperate)?
c) [2 marks] HOW habitable do you think this planet would be to life like us and WHY?
      AST101H1F FINAL EXAM, DECEMBER 2013
PAGE 16 OF 16
THE END

UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO Faculty of Arts and Science
DECEMBER 2014 EXAMINATIONS AST101H1F
Duration – 3 hours No Aids Allowed
FIRST NAME: ____________________________ LAST NAME: _________________________ STUDENT NUMBER: _____________________ UTORID: (e.g.smitha4) __________________
Instructions:
1. ON THIS PAGE: Fill in your identifying information above. Make sure you fill in your name AS IT APPEARS ON ROSI.
2. ON THE BUBBLE SHEET: Fill in your last name, first initial, and student number in the spaces given and, using pencil, darkly shade in the corresponding bubbles. Then sign the card.
3. For each multiple choice question, mark your answer on the bubble sheet by darkly shading the appropriate bubble. All answers to multiple choice questions must be transferred to the bubble sheet. UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES WILL ANSWERS TO MULTIPLE CHOICE QUESTIONS WRITTEN ON THIS PAPER BE ACCEPTED FOR MARKS.
4. Answer short answer questions in the spaces provided.
5. Answers to short-answer questions which are written in pencil will not be re-marked.
6. Make sure that your exam paper has 16 pages.
7. This exam is out of a TOTAL OF 76 MARKS.
      AST101H1F FINAL EXAM, DECEMBER 2014 PAGE 1 OF 16

PART A: For each question, choose the MOST CORRECT answer and TRANSFER YOUR ANSWERS TO THE BUBBLE SHEET WHEN YOU ARE DONE (1 mark each)
1. Approximately how many orbits does the Moon make around the Earth in one year?
a) 1
b) 12* c) 27 d) 360 e) 365
2. Approximately how many orbits does the Earth make around the Sun in one year?
a) 1 * b) 12 c) 27 d) 360 e) 365
3. Consider two planets, both the same age and orbiting the same star. Planet A has a lower overall mass and a higher deuterium-to-hydrogen (D/H) ratio than Planet B. What is a likely explanation for this?
a) Planet A used to have a thinner atmosphere than it does now
b) Planet A used to have more water than it does now *
c) Planet A has a higher surface escape speed than Planet B
d) Planet B has a thicker atmosphere than Planet A
e) Planet B has lost a lot of deuterium to space
4. The main reason that exoplanets detected by the radial velocity method cannot usually be detected by the transit method is:
a) they have the wrong orbital inclination * b) they have masses that are too low
c) they are too small
d) they tend to be hot Jupiters
e) they have large orbital velocities
5. If Kepler’s laws were true as Kepler originally stated them, the radial velocity method of exoplanet detection would not be possible. Why not?
a) Kepler’s laws put the star motionless at one focus of a planet’s elliptical orbit. *
b) Kepler’s laws say that planets that are farther from the star will move slower.
c) Kepler’s second law says that planets change their speeds as they orbit their parent stars
d) In reality, angular momentum is not conserved
e) Kepler’s laws don’t apply to hot Jupiters
  AST101H1F FINAL EXAM, DECEMBER 2014 PAGE 2 OF 16

6. Which of the following best describes the type of spectrum of light an asteroid would EMIT?
 7. If
we used our naked eye to view the stars from Jupiter’s moon Europa, they would look:
a) an emission spectrum with lots of lines in the visible part of the spectrum
b) an absorption spectrum with lots of lines in the infrared
c) a continuous spectrum peaking in visible light
d) a continuous spectrum with very few emission or absorption lines *
e) an emission spectrum with lots of lines in the infrared part of the spectrum
 a) redder or bluer than they look from Earth, due to their Doppler shifts
b) closer than they do from Earth
c) the same as how they look from Earth *
d) they would be in all different positions, because Europa is so far from Earth
e) brighter than they do from Earth, because they would be closer
8. Over the course of a whole year, how often are both the Sun and Moon above the horizon at the same time, as seen from Toronto?
a) never
b) one-twelfth of the time
c) one-quarter of the time
d) half of the time *
e) always
9. Imagine the Moon is in its FULL phase. From which of the following combinations of location and time would you NOT be able to see it?
a) Tokyo at 2:00 a.m. local time
b) Mexico City at 7:00 a.m. local time *
c) Paris at 1:00 a.m. local time
d) New York at 3:30 a.m. local time
e) Honolulu, Hawaii at 9:00 p.m. local time
10. Imagine the Moon is in its THIRD QUARTER phase. From which of the following combinations of location and time would you NOT be able to see it?
a) Tokyo at 2:00 a.m. local time
b) Mexico City at 7:00 a.m. local time
c) Paris at 1:00 a.m. local time
d) New York at 3:30 a.m. local time
e) Honolulu, Hawaii at 9:00 p.m. local time *
    AST101H1F FINAL EXAM, DECEMBER 2014
PAGE 3 OF 16

11. If we were to release a lot of extra carbon dioxide into the atmosphere of Mars, what would happen in the long term (i.e. over millions or billions of years)?
a) Mars’ atmosphere would heat up, its ice caps would melt, and it would become Earth-like
b) Mars’ atmosphere would suffer a runaway greenhouse effect, which would make it more
like Venus
c) The extra carbon dioxide would be taken out of the atmosphere by Mars’ carbon cycle
d) Mars’ atmosphere would heat up, leading much of the extra carbon dioxide to escape to
space *
e) The extra carbon dioxide would just freeze onto the surface of Mars.
12. The total number of confirmed detections of Earth-size exoplanets (less than 1.25 Earth radii) is approximately:
a) none
b) tens
c) hundreds *
d) thousands
e) millions
13. Which of the following correctly describes a significant difference between the volcanoes of Earth and Venus?
a) Venus’ volancoes are randomly scattered compared to those on Earth *
b) Venus’ volcanoes are much more active than those on Earth
c) Venus’ volcanoes are larger than those on Earth
d) Venus has far fewer volcanoes than Earth
e) Venus has many volcanoes taller than the tallest mountain on Earth
14. Which of the following lists contains ONLY moons thought to have significant amounts of liquid water beneath their surfaces?
a) Europa, Enceladus, Titan
b) Europa, Ganymede, Triton
c) Europa, Ganymede, Enceladus *
d) Titan, Enceladus, Ganymede
e) Europa and Titan
15. Which of the following is NOT a piece of evidence in support of the nebular hypothesis for the formation of the solar system?
a) all planets orbit the Sun in the same direction
b) most large moons orbit their parent planets in the same direction
c) no planet shows evidence of heavy recent asteroid bombardment
d) the planet Uranus is tipped over on its side *
e) all of the gas giant planets orbit outside the frost line
  AST101H1F FINAL EXAM, DECEMBER 2014
PAGE 4 OF 16

16. The planets in our solar system which have rings are:
a) Jupiter and Saturn
b) Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus, and Neptune *
c) Mars and Saturn
d) only Saturn
e) Jupiter, Saturn, and Uranus
17. Which of the following surprises emerged from the earliest discoveries of exoplanets?
a) they had random orbital inclinations, relative to our solar system
b) many of them were very similar to Earth
c) most of them could not be seen by direct imaging and had to be detected indirectly
d) many of them were gas giants with orbital periods of days or weeks *
e) they tended to have very large orbital semi-major axes
18. Imagine we added a new rocky moon to Saturn. If the moon was medium-sized, orbited outside Saturn’s ring system, had a low orbital inclination, and had a low orbital eccentricity, which of
the following might result?
a) the moon would produce a new gap or set of gaps in the rings of Saturn *
b) the moon would be destroyed by Saturn’s tidal gravity, creating a new ring
c) the moon would eventually collide with another moon of Saturn, creating a new ring
d) the moon’s orbit would decay and it would eventually collide with Saturn
e) the moon would interact gravitationally with the other moons of Saturn and be ejected from
the Saturn system
19. The sun produces most of its energy by:
a) gravitational contraction
b) chemical reactions
c) converting matter to energy *
d) differentiation
e) hydrogen fission
20. Which of the following changes would shorten the time period between high tides the MOST,
as seen by a stationary observer on Earth?
a) increase the Moon’s orbital period by one hour
b) decrease the Moon’s orbital period by one hour
c) increase Earth’s orbital period by one hour
d) decrease Earth’s rotational period by one hour *
e) increase Earths’ rotational period by one hour
 AST101H1F FINAL EXAM, DECEMBER 2014
PAGE 5 OF 16

21. On a scale on which it takes one step to go from the Sun to Earth, approximately how many steps would it take to go from Earth to Pluto?
a) 4
b) 40 * c) 400
d) 4000 e) 40,000
22. Why doesn’t Mars have significant auroras?
a) the solar wind doesn’t reach Mars
b) it doesn’t have an atmosphere
c) the solar wind is too weak to cause auroras by the time it reaches Mars
d) it doesn’t have a magnetic field *
e) it doesn’t have enough nitrogen in its atmosphere
23. If
we made Earth’s orbit a perfect circle, which of the following things would happen?
a) Total lunar eclipses would become impossible, but there would still be partial ones.
b) There would be no more seasons on Earth
c) The Moon would appear larger in our sky
d) There would be slight changes in the strength of the tides from the Sun *
e) Earth would become too hot to be habitable.
24. Imagine a solar system with only three planets. The three planets are in a 1:3:5 resonance. In the time it takes the planet with the shortest orbital period to complete one orbit, how many orbits will the planet with the longest orbital period complete?
  a) b) c) d) e)
25. Io
a) b) c) d) e)
1/5* 1/3 3/5 5/3
5
is much smaller than Venus, yet it is much more volcanically active. Why?
Io is made of denser rock, which traps heat more effectively
Io is not old enough to have cooled completely yet
Io is heated internally by tidal friction *
Io is closer to the Sun than Venus and therefore warmer
Io’s interior is full of radioactive elements whose decays keep it warm
AST101H1F FINAL EXAM, DECEMBER 2014
PAGE 6 OF 16

26. The main difference between asteroids and comets is that:
a) asteroids are in circular orbits while comets are in elliptical ones
b) asteroids orbit close to the Sun but comets never come close to the Sun
c) asteroids never have tails and comets always do
d) asteroids tend to be rocky, while comets tend to be icy *
e) there are no differences between comets and asteroids
27. According to Kepler’s Laws, if two planets (orbiting different but identical stars) have the same orbital period, they must also:
a) always move at the same speed as one another
b) have the same orbital eccentricity
c) orbit their stars in the same direction
d) have the same orbital semimajor axis *
e) have the same mass
28. According to Fermi’s Paradox, we should be surprised that we have not been contacted by extraterrestrial (ET) intelligences because the time taken to cross our galaxy in an advanced spaceship is:
a) very, very long
b) much shorter than the time required for a planet to evolve intelligent life *
c) small when compared to how long it would take to travel to the nearest galaxy
d) something that can be shortened with sufficiently advanced technology
e) short compared to the time it would take us to send a signal to any potential ET civilization
out there
29. The radial velocity method of exoplanet detection preferentially finds planets that have:
a) high masses and small semi-major axes *
b) high masses and large semi-major axes
c) low masses and small semi-major axes
d) low masses and large semi-major axes
e) none of the above--the biases that used to affect this method have been corrected in recent years
30. Which of the following objects is going to be visited (landing, orbit, or flyby) for the first time
in 2015?
a) a comet
b) a moon of Jupiter
c) an asteroid
d) a dwarf planet *
e) an exoplanet
 AST101H1F FINAL EXAM, DECEMBER 2014
PAGE 7 OF 16

31. Imagine that a new planet is discovered orbiting a star (not the Sun). This star is almost exactly like the Sun and the planet orbits it at 1 AU. This planet is found to be about half the mass of Earth. From this information, we can conclude that the planet is likely:
a) to be completely free of water.
b) to have a thin atmosphere. *
c) to be extremely hot.
d) to be highly geologically active.
e) to support life.
32. Which of the following factors is MOST responsible for determining whether a terrestrial planet will be geologically active?
a) the strength of its magnetic field
b) its chemical composition
c) the thickness of its atmosphere
d) its size *
e) its distance from the Sun
33. Which of the following forms of electromagnetic radiation has the longest wavelength?
a) Radio waves *
b) X-rays
c) Visible light
d) Infrared
e) Microwaves
34. Here are the spectra of two different celestial objects., A and B. What relationship between these two objects is revealed by these spectra?
a) A is hotter than B
b) A is moving relative to us at a different speed than B is *
c) A is colder than B
d) A is larger than B
e) A is made of different materials than B
  AST101H1F FINAL EXAM, DECEMBER 2014
PAGE 8 OF 16

35. If you wanted to build a telescope that could see as large a fraction of the celestial sphere as possible over the course of a year, where should you build it? Assume weather is not a factor.
a) on top of the tallest mountain
b) on the equator *
c) at either the north or south poles
d) above the Arctic Circle, which is at a latitude of 66.5 degrees north
e) in a place where the nights are long and dark
36. On
Earth, the sky is blue because Earth’s atmosphere:
a) transmits blue light
b) scatters blue light *
c) reflects blue light
d) scatters red light
e) reflects red light
37. If two stars, X and Y, are the same size, but star X has a spectrum that peaks at a shorter wavelength than star Y, what can we conclude about them?
a) star X is cooler than star Y
b) star X emits less red light than star Y
c) star X is brighter than star Y *
d) star X has fewer sunspots than star Y
e) star X would appear white
38. Why does Mercury have many more tall cliffs than the Moon?
a) After Mercury formed, it cooled and contracted more than the Moon did, and this cracked its crust. *
b) Mercury was subjected to an intense early bombardment, which caused a lot of ruptures in its surface.
c) Mercury went through an extended period of highly active plate tectonics before it cooled, and interactions between the plates thrust their edges upward.
d) Mercury is close to the Sun and the intense heat from the Sun has cracked the surface e) Mercury has a larger iron core than the Moon does, and that core has produced more
internal heating
39. If two planets have the same D/H ratio and formed at the same time in the same solar system, which of the following other properties might we expect they would have in common?
a) Surface escape speed *
b) Number of moons
c) Level of geologic activity
d) Total mass of water
e) Planetary mass
AST101H1F FINAL EXAM, DECEMBER 2014
PAGE 9 OF 16

40. Dwarf planets orbiting beyond Neptune differ from Kuiper belt comets mainly in:
a) Chemical composition b) Orbital semimajor axis c) Age
d) Absence of tails
e) Size *
41. If you go out tonight and you see that the planet Mars is just about to move out of the constellation Virgo, how long would you have to wait before you could see it in that constellation again? Assume that Mars is not just about to do a retrograde loop.
a) Days
b) Weeks
c) Months
d) Y ears*
e) Decades
42. On
the horizon all day long without rising or setting. Where am I?
the spring equinox (around March 20), I see the Sun making a circle around my sky right on
a) On the Moon
b) At the North Pole *
c) On the Arctic Circle (66.5 degrees north)
d) On the equator
e) On the top of a very tall mountain
43. I am outdoors standing up straight. The Sun is directly over my head. Where might I be?
a) At the equator on the summer solstice
b) At the North Pole on the spring equinox
c) At the equator on the fall equinox *
d) At 23.5 degrees north latitude on the winter solstice
e) At the South Pole on the winter solstice
 44. In
are most similar to:
a) Neptune *
b) Jupiter
c) Earth
d) Mars
e) Mercury
terms of their sizes, the majority of the exoplanets discovered so far using the transit method
AST101H1F FINAL EXAM, DECEMBER 2014
PAGE 10 OF 16

45. The Rosetta spacecraft recently met up with a comet between the orbits of Mars and Jupiter. At the time of the encounter, the comet and Earth were on opposite sides of the sun. Approximately how far must this comet have been from Earth at the time of the encounter?
a) 30 light seconds
b) 40 AU
c) 0.5 light years
d) 100,000 km
e) 20 light minutes *
46. Why is there a tidal bulge on the opposite side of the Earth from the Moon?
a) Because of the Sun’s gravity.
b) Because friction between the water and the ground drags the bulge raised by the Moon
around to the far side of the Earth.
c) Because that side of the Earth feels less gravity from the Moon than the center of the Earth
does. *
d) Because the oceans are all attached, so that if you deform the oceans on one side of the
Earth, the oceans on the other side deform, too.
e) Because the Moon’s gravity pushes the water on that side of the Earth away from the
surface.
47. Which of the following CANNOT provide significant heat to the deep interior a moon or planet?
a) radioactive decays
b) gravitational contraction c) the greenhouse effect * d) tidal friction
e) differentiation
48. If Jupiter has an orbital period of 12 years, which of the following represents a set of orbital periods (in years) at which we should expect to find significant gaps in the main asteroid belt?
a) 4, 6 *
b) 4, 5, 6
c) 6, 12
d) 24, 36
e) 1, 4, 6
  AST101H1F FINAL EXAM, DECEMBER 2014
PAGE 11 OF 16

49. Studying the rings of Saturn would be MOST useful in helping us answer which of the following questions?
a) How did life start on Earth?
b) Why are the stars in our galaxy so far apart from one another, on average?
c) How do planets form in newly-formed solar systems? *
d) Why do some jovian planets in our solar system have rings while others do not?
e) Why does Earth have such a large moon, in proportion to its mass?
50. Which of the following claims must be FALSE? Assume the observer is on Earth.
a) I saw the Sun and the Moon in the sky at the same time.
b) I saw the Moon pass in front of Polaris. *
c) I saw the full Moon high in the sky at midnight.
d) I saw the Sun rise above the eastern horizon early one morning.
e) I saw Saturn in the sky with my own, unaided eye.
All answers to Part A questions MUST be
transferred to the bubble sheet to count for marks!
   AST101H1F FINAL EXAM, DECEMBER 2014 PAGE 12 OF 16

PART B: Short answer questions. Answer ALL of the following questions in the spaces provided. Point form is acceptable where appropriate. Marks may be deducted for lack of clarity or concision.
1. Imagine a pair of planets orbiting the same star. That star is just like the Sun and is about 5 billion years old. Answer the following questions about these planets based on the properties listed in the table below.
a) [0.5 marks] Which planet in our own solar system is most similar to planet X?
b) [1.5 marks] Which of these planets would you expect to have the most Earth-like climate and WHY?
c) [1.5 marks] Which of these planets would be easier to detect from Earth using the radial velocity method and WHY?
d) [1.5 marks] Which of these planets would you expect to have more active volcanoes and WHY?
e) [1.5 marks] Which of these planets would be most likely to have a large number of moons and WHY?
f) [1.5 marks] Which of these planets do you think is older and WHY?
       Property
     Planet X
   Planet Y
   Radius (compared to Earth)
       0.5
      1.5
   Mass (compared to Earth)
  0.1
 10
   Orbital period (years)
     2
   3
   Atmospheric composition
       100% carbon dioxide
      100% nitrogen
         AST101H1F FINAL EXAM, DECEMBER 2014 PAGE 13 OF 16

2. Exoplanets.
a)
b)
i. ii.
iii.
[1 mark] We describe both the radial velocity method and the transit method as indirect methods for detecting exoplanets. In what sense are both of these methods “indirect”?
Draw a graph showing what a detection of an exoplanet looks like in the transit method. For full marks, your graph must include all of the following, all CLEARLY LABELED:
[1 mark] a pair of axes with axis labels
[1 mark] an example of an exoplanet light curve, covering THREE orbital periods of the planet (you can make the transit take longer than it would naturally, so that your diagram is clearer).
[1 mark] an example of a second light curve for a planet with a much larger radius than the first one, but with the same orbital semimajor axis. (You may need to draw a second graph if you cannot draw both lines on the same graph without getting them mixed up, but your second graph MUST have exactly the same scale on its axes.)
      c)
[2 marks] Explain how we can use the light curve of an exoplanet to measure how far the planet orbits from its parent star.
AST101H1F FINAL EXAM, DECEMBER 2014 PAGE 14 OF 16

3. Planetary atmospheres.
a) [2 marks] Mars and Venus have nearly identical chemical compositions, yet they have very
different climates. State TWO reasons for this difference. 1.
2.
b) [2 marks] Explain how the greenhouse effect keeps Earth warmer than it would be if there were no greenhouse effect.
 c) [2 marks] Explain, step by step, what would happen to the climate of Earth in the long term if a sudden series of volcanic eruptions temporarily increased the amount of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere. Point form is acceptable.
 AST101H1F FINAL EXAM, DECEMBER 2014 PAGE 15 OF 16

4.
Planetary interiors.
a)
i. ii.
The following circles represent the surfaces of three planets: Mercury, Mars, and Jupiter. Use each circle as the starting point for a diagram showing the approximate interior structures of each planet. All three diagrams must include all of the following features, each one CLEARLY LABELED:
[3 marks] the major layers within each planet, drawn approximately to scale, and with the major chemical constituent of each layer indicated.
[3 marks] the physical state of each layer: solid, liquid, or gas
An example answer is shown below, for a totally fake planet.
Jupiter
      Mercury
Mars
   Example answer for fake planet:
water, liquid rock, solid hydrogen, gas
   b)
[2 marks] Explain WHY the chemical compositions of Jupiter and Mercury are so different.
 THE END -- TOTAL MARKS 76
AST101H1F FINAL EXAM, DECEMBER 2014 PAGE 16 OF 16

 UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO Faculty of Arts and Science
DECEMBER 2015 EXAMINATIONS  AST101H1F 
 
Duration – 3 hours
No Aids Allowed
 
FIRST NAME: ____________________________ LAST NAME: _________________________
STUDENT NUMBER: _____________________ UTORID: (e.g.smitha4) __________________
Instructions:
1. ON THIS PAGE: Fill in your identifying information above. Make sure you fill in your name AS IT APPEARS ON ROSI.
2. ONTHEBUBBLESHEET:Fillinyourlastname,firstinitial,andstudentnumberinthe spaces given and, using pencil, darkly shade in the corresponding bubbles. Then sign the card. There is no form code.
3. Formultiplechoicequestions,markallanswersonthebubblesheetbydarklyshading the appropriate bubbles. Only answers on the bubble sheet will count for marks.
4. Answer short answer questions in the spaces provided.
5. Makesurethatyourexampaperhas13pages.
6. This exam is out of 60 marks.
                             
    AST101H1FFINALEXAM,DECEMBER2015
PAGE1! OF1!5

      
PART A: [1 mark each] For each question, choose the MOST CORRECT answer and
TRANSFER YOUR ANSWERS TO THE BUBBLE SHEET WHEN YOU ARE DONE. 
1. Which of the following is a difference between fusion and fission? 
a) Fusion means sticking atomic nuclei together, while fission means breaking them apart. *
b) Fusion is a nuclear reaction, while fission is a chemical reaction.
c) Fusion occurs primarily in the Sun’s core, while fission occurs only in the photosphere.
d) Fusion produces a continuous spectrum, while fission produces emission lines.
e) Fusion involves breaking atoms apart, while fission involves sticking them together. 
2. The colour of a light wave is determined by its: 
a) Its temperature.
b) Its wavelength. *
c) Its mass.
d) Its speed.
e) Its intensity. 
3. Compared to a hot blackbody, a cold blackbody: 
a) shows a larger Doppler effect.
b) is smaller.
c) is redder. *
d) is brighter.
e) produces more emission lines. 
4. For which solar system object do we always observe a redshift due to the Doppler effect? 
a) Mars, because it’s red.
b) The Moon, during an eclipse.
c) A solar flare erupting from the surface of the Sun.
d) A comet moving away from us. *
e) Io, because it has many volcanoes. 
5. According to the nebular hypothesis, all planets orbit the Sun in the same direction because: 
a) Energy was conserved as the proto-solar nebula collapsed.
b) As a cloud collapses, it rotates more quickly.
c) The solar system formed out of a single spinning disk. *
   AST101H1FFINALEXAM,DECEMBER2015 PAGE2! OF1!5

 d) The Sun produces tidal forces that modify the planets’ orbits.
e) All planets do whatever Earth does. 
       
6. The next four questions make reference to the following picture of the Earth (E), Sun (S), and Moon (M). The picture is not to scale. In the picture, you are looking down on the Earth from
above the North Pole. 
Approximately what time is it at the position indicated by the black dot on the Earth? 
a) 3:00 a.m.
b) 6:00 a.m.
c) noon
d) 3:00 p.m. *
e) 6:00 p.m. 
7. At what time will the Moon set below the horizon on the day represented by the diagram? 
a) 3:00 p.m.
b) 6:00 p.m.
c) 9:00 p.m.
d) midnight *
e) 3:00 a.m.
8. What is the phase of the Moon in the picture? 
a) new moon
b) crescent moon
c) first quarter moon *
d) full moon
  AST101H1FFINALEXAM,DECEMBER2015
PAGE3! OF1!5

 e) third quarter moon 
9. Twelve hours after the time shown in the picture, what would the Moon's phase be?
a) new moon
b) crescent moon
c) first quarter moon *
d) full moon
e) third quarter moon
   
10. The diagrams below show the energy levels of two atoms of the same element. In each atom, an
electron (e) is moving between energy levels. Which of the following correctly describes this situation?
!!
a) Atom A emits a longer wavelength of light than atom B.
b) Atom A emits a higher frequency of light than atom B. *
c) Atom A emits a lower energy of light than atom B.
d) Atom A absorbs a longer of wavelength light than atom B.
e) Atom A absorbs a higher frequency of light than atom B.
11. Compared to the distance between the Earth and the Sun, the distance between the Earth and Saturn is approximately: 
a) 100 times smaller
b) 10 times smaller
c) the same
d) 10 times larger *
e) 100 times larger
12. Which of the following discoveries about another solar system would most strongly challenge
   AST101H1FFINALEXAM,DECEMBER2015 PAGE4! OF1!5

 the nebular hypothesis for the formation of solar systems? 
a) A solar system with a gas giant very close to its parent star and no terrestrial planets.
b) A solar system with two stars orbited by a single planet very far away.
c) A solar system with no ice giant planets.
d) A solar system with ice giant planets orbited by small rocky moons.
e) A solar system with two gas giant planets orbiting the star in opposite directions. * 
13. Which of the following is an important difference between comets and asteroids? 
a) asteroids formed much earlier than comets
b) asteroids never outgas, but comets do
c) asteroids have high orbital eccentricities while comets typically have low eccentricities
d) asteroids typically orbit much closer to the Sun than comets do *
e) asteroids are made of ice and comets are made of a mix of ice and rock
14. In
discovery important?
2015, a major discovery about the presence of water on Mars was made. Why was this
a) It proved for the first time that there is water ice on Mars.
b) It proved that Earth-like life could survive on Mars.
c) It proved that Mars once had a thick atmosphere.
d) It proved that liquid water must exist in some form on Mars. *
e) It proved that life exists on Mars. 
15. The fact that some asteroids are very fragile is important because it tells us that: 
a) samples of these asteroids are reliable indicators of the composition of the early solar system *
b) we are not at risk if such asteroids hit Earth
c) tidal gravity can destroy these asteroids, if they come too close to planets
d) there is not much distinction between comets and asteroids
e) returning samples of asteroids to Earth will not be as difficult as was first thought 
16. Imagine that we detect an exoplanetary system in which the orbital periods of the planets are X: 56 days, Y: 104 days, Z: 230 days. What can we conclude from this information? 
a) These planets are in a 1:2:3 orbital resonance.
b) All of these planets are inside the frost line.
c) X must have a much higher mass than Z.
d) X is a hot Jupiter.
e) X is the closest planet to the star and Z is the farthest. *
17. Jupiter is often called a gas giant. This name is: 
 AST101H1FFINALEXAM,DECEMBER2015
PAGE5! OF1!5

 a) suitable, because Jupiter is about 90% gas.
b) suitable, because Jupiter is the largest planet in the solar system.
c) suitable, because Jupiter has a higher fraction of gas, by volume, than any other planet.
d) unsuitable, because Jupiter is mostly liquid. *
e) unsuitable, because Jupiter is too cold to be a gas. 
18. Which of the following BEST describes why Mars appears red to the unaided eye? 
a) Mars scatters red light and absorbs blue light *
b) Mars scatters red light
c) Mars emits red light and absorbs blue light
d) Mars emits red light
e) Mars scatters red light and emits blue light   
     
19. Imagine three moons which are in an 2:3:6 orbital resonance. If the longest orbital period among these moons is 12 days, what is the shortest orbital period? 
a) 2 days
b) 3 days
c) 4 days *
d) 6 days
e) 12 days 
20. Which of the following would decrease Io's degree of volcanic activity? 
a) lowering its orbital semimajor axis
b) lowering its orbital eccentricity *
c) lowering its orbital inclination
d) increasing its mass
e) increasing the thickness of its atmosphere 
   21. In
the early days of exoplanet discovery, almost all of the planets found were hot Jupiters. Why? 
a) hot Jupiters emit a lot more light than other planets, so they are easy to see
b) hot Jupiters produce larger "wobbles" in their parent stars than other planets *
c) hot Jupiters orbit farther from their stars than other planets, so they are easier to see
d) hot Jupiters tend to evaporate, producing distinctive spectral lines in the stars they orbit
e) hot Jupiters have longer orbital periods, which are easier to measure 
AST101H1FFINALEXAM,DECEMBER2015 PAGE6! OF1!5

 22. If we moved the Moon three times as far from the Earth as it is now, the force of gravity between them would: 
a) increase by a factor of 9
b) increase by a factor of 3
c) remain unchanged
d) decrease by a factor of 3
e) decrease by a factor of 9 * 
23. Which of the following features does Venus currently lack that can account for how different its surface temperature is from that of Earth? 
a) volcanoes
b) a molten core
c) a carbon cycle *
d) an atmosphere
e) cratering 
       
24. The next three questions refer to the following diagram. The diagram shows a hot ball of solid iron, a cloud of warm, low-density hydrogen gas, and a cloud of warm, low-density helium gas. From which direction would we have to look in order to see a continuous spectrum? Assume that the only objects in the field of view are those directly along the line indicated by the arrow.   
!
  AST101H1FFINALEXAM,DECEMBER2015 PAGE7! OF1!5

 a) A b) B c) C d) D e) E* 
25. From which direction would we have to look in order to see a helium emission spectrum alone? 
a) A b) B * c) C d) D e) E
26. From which perspective would we have to look to see an absorption spectrum showing hydrogen lines? 
a) A
b) B
c) C *
d) D
e) E 
 
27. If I see a star whose hydrogen spectral lines appear at shorter wavelengths than the hydrogen spectral lines of our own Sun, what can I conclude about that other star? 
a) It contains less hydrogen than the Sun.
b) It is hotter than the Sun.
c) It is moving toward the Earth. *
d) It is brighter than the Sun.
e) It will appear bluer than the Sun to the naked eye. 
28. Imagine an exoplanet discovered orbiting a star with the same mass as the sun. The planet has the same mass as Earth, but is 20% larger in size. Its orbital period is 355 days. What can we conclude about this planet? 
a) It has a thicker atmosphere than Earth.
b) It is too hot to sustain life similar to Earth life.
c) It is actually a gas giant.
d) It is geologically inactive.
e) Its orbital semimajor axis must be approximately 1 AU. * 
 AST101H1FFINALEXAM,DECEMBER2015
PAGE8! OF1!5

 29. The number of jovian planets in our solar system with rings is: 
a) 0 b) 1 c) 2 d) 3 e) 4 * 
30. Imagine a moon orbiting outside the ring system of a jovian planet. How can such a moon open a gap in the rings without leaving its own orbit? 
a) The tidal gravity of the moon will destroy ring particles at certain distances from the planet.
b) Ring particles in orbital resonance with the moon will be nudged out of their orbits. *
c) The gravity of the moon will distort the entire ring system, making the orbits of ring
particles eccentric and causing them to crash into one another.
d) Any ring particle whose orbital period is half that of the moon will be slowly pushed toward
the planet and eventually collide with it.
e) This is not possible--only moons that orbit inside the ring system can open gaps in the rings. 
31. Compared to the gravity on Earth, the amount of gravity in space is: 
a) a lot lower
b) a little lower
c) a little higher
d) a lot higher
e) higher and lower in different places * 
 
32. Imagine two astronauts in a circular orbit around the Earth moving at 20,000 km/h. They have the same mass and are aligned so that their bodies are at the same distance from Earth as one another. They are holding hands. If they let go of each other's hands, what will happen to them? 
a) both of them will fall to Earth
b) one or both of them will fly away from Earth
c) they will drift apart from one another
d) they will remain close together *
e) they will collide with one another 
33. How do we know that the surface of Mercury is much older than that of Venus?
a) Mercury's surface is much more heavily cratered *
b) Radioisotope dating shows that Mercury is much older.
AST101H1FFINALEXAM,DECEMBER2015
PAGE9! OF1!5
 
 c) Mercury has a thinner atmosphere than Venus.
d) Mercury has no carbon cycle.
e) Mercury lost its water to space billions of years ago. 
34. Most of the exoplanets we have found to date are: 
a) larger than Earth, with longer orbital periods.
b) smaller than Earth, with longer orbital periods.
c) about the same size as Earth, with about the same orbital period.
d) larger than Earth, with shorter orbital periods. *
e) smaller than Earth, with shorter orbital periods.  
35. Imagine Earth and Mars start off with the same ratio of deuterium to hydrogen (D/H). Which of
the following best explains why Mars' ratio will increase over time, relative to Earth's? 
a) Mars loses D more easily than Earth does.
b) Both planets lose some D, but Mars loses much more H than Earth does. *
c) Earth can hold onto all of its supply of both D and H.
d) Both planets hold all of their H, but Mars gains D.
e) Earth loses D much more easily than Mars does. 
36. Which of the following Moon phases produces the highest high tides? 
a) new*
b) waning gibbous
c) first quarter
d) crescent
e) waxing gibbous 
       
37. The transit method for finding exoplanets can tell us:
a) An exoplanet’s temperature and mass.
b) An exoplanet’s mass and size.
c) An exoplanet’s size and orbital period. *
d) An exoplanet’s age and orbital period.
 AST101H1FFINALEXAM,DECEMBER2015 PAGE1!0OF1!5

 e) An exoplanet’s mass and age. 
38. What is the carbon cycle? 
a) A method for determining the age of the solar system.
b) A process through which planets lose interior heat.
c) A process that keeps a planet’s temperature relatively constant. *
d) The cause of continental drift.
e) The main reason for global warming. 
39. Mars was perhaps once a lot like Earth. Why is this no longer the case? 
a) The Sun has cooled down.
b) The CO2 in Mars’ atmosphere has leaked away into space. *
c) A massive impact on Mars had catastrophic consequences.
d) Mars has undergone a runaway greenhouse effect.
e) Mars does not have volcanoes, and so has cooled down. 
 40. If
a terrestrial planet in our solar system has a small number of craters, this implies:
a) The planet is geologically active. *
b) The planet has no interior heat.
c) The planet formed recently.
d) The planet has a strong magnetic field.
e) The planet is inside the frost line. 
41. In the present-day solar system, a terrestrial planet’s main source of internal heat is: 
a) The greenhouse effect.
AST101H1FFINALEXAM,DECEMBER2015 PAGE1!1OF1!5
 
 b) Sunlight.
c) Radioactivity. *
d) Rotation.
e) Nuclear fusion.   
         
42. If
at which we might receive a reply from that planet? 
we send a radio signal to an exoplanet 300 light years away, what is the earliest possible time
a) as soon as the aliens receiving the message transmit their reply
b) 150 years
c) 300 years
d) 600 years *
e) Thousands of years. 
43. Why do we suspect that the Moon formed when another planet collided with the Earth? 
a) The Moon’s overall composition matches the composition of the Earth’s outer layers. *
b) Radioactive dating shows that the Moon is much younger than the Earth.
c) The Moon has more craters than the Earth.
d) The Earth and the Moon rotate on their axes at the same speeds.
e) The Earth has an atmosphere, while the Moon does not. 
44. The Doppler method for finding exoplanets only works if: 
a) The exoplanet is a terrestrial planet.
AST101H1FFINALEXAM,DECEMBER2015 PAGE1!2OF1!5

 b) The exoplanet is orbiting exactly edge-on as viewed from Earth.
c) The exoplanet has a retrograde orbit.
d) There are emission or absorption lines in the spectrum of the parent star. *
e) The parent star is at a quiet period in its cycle of activity. 
45. Why are we particularly interested in studying the moons Europa, Enceladus, and Ganymede? 
a) Because they tell us what conditions were like when the solar system formed.
b) Because they are geologically active, but there are no good hypotheses as to why.
c) Because they are involved in a three-way orbital resonance with one another.
d) Because they all have thick atmospheres which suggest that they might sustain life.
e) Because they contain liquid water, which is necessary to sustain Earth-like life. * 
PART B: [2 marks each] Multiple-answer questions. For questions in this section,
bubble in ALL correct answers (anywhere from 0 to 5 of them). To receive credit, you must indicate all of the correct answers and none of the incorrect ones. Transfer all of your answers to the bubble sheet. 
46. Which of the following comparisons about Earth and Mars are true? 
a) They have approximately the same length of day. *
b) They have approximately the same mass.
c) They have approximately the same atmospheric composition.
d) Water is present on both their surfaces. *
e) Both planets have strong magnetic fields. 
 
47. Which of the following factors determine a planet's level of geological activity? 
a) The level of radioactivity in its interior. *
b) The thickness of its atmosphere.
c) Its size. *
d) The amount of sunlight it receives.
e) Its age. *
48. Which of the following claims must be false? 
      AST101H1FFINALEXAM,DECEMBER2015 PAGE1!3OF1!5

 a) I saw the full moon close to the horizon.
b) I stood at a fixed location on Earth and the sun didn't rise for more than a month.
c) I saw Polaris while I was on vacation in Australia. *
d) I saw the Moon in the sky during the day.
e) I saw a lunar eclipse in Toronto at the same time as my friend saw it from Brazil. 
49. Which of the following worlds have humans walked on? 
a) Mercury
b) Venus
c) Mars
d) Jupiter
e) the Moon *  
50. In
Which of the diagrams represent possible orbits of that planet around that star? Assume that we are looking directly down on these solar systems, perpendicular to the plane of the planet's orbit. 
 
!   
PART C: Short answer question. Answer the following question in the space provided.
Point form is acceptable where appropriate. Marks may be deducted for lack of clarity or concision. 
51. [5 marks] Both terrestrial and jovian planets have rocky cores, yet jovian planets have very thick atmospheres while terrestrial planets have thin ones. What factors have produced this difference?
each of the following diagrams, the big black dot is a star and the small black dot is a planet.
    AST101H1FFINALEXAM,DECEMBER2015 PAGE1!4OF1!5

            
 
                 
 
THE END -- TOTAL MARKS 60
AST101H1FFINALEXAM,DECEMBER2015 PAGE1!5OF1!5

 UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO Faculty of Arts and Science
DECEMBER 2016 EXAMINATIONS AST101H1F
Duration – 3 hours No Aids Allowed
FIRST NAME: ____________________________ LAST NAME: ____________________________ STUDENT NUMBER: ______________________ UTORID: (e.g. smitha4) ____________________
Instructions:
1. ON THIS PAGE: Fill in your identifying information above. Make sure you fill in your name AS IT APPEARS ON ROSI.
2. ON THE BUBBLE SHEET: Fill in your last name, first initial, and student number in the spaces given and, using pencil, darkly shade in the corresponding bubbles. Then sign the card. There is no form code.
3. For multiple choice questions, mark all answers on the bubble sheet by darkly shading the appropriate bubbles. Only answers on the bubble sheet will count for marks.
4. Answer short answer questions in the spaces provided.
5. Make sure that your exam paper has 16 pages.
6. This exam is out of 100 marks.
 AST101H1F FINAL EXAM, DECEMBER 2016 PAGE 1 OF 16

 PART A: [1 mark each] For each question, choose the MOST
CORRECT answer and TRANSFER YOUR ANSWERS TO THE BUBBLE SHEET WHEN YOU ARE DONE.
   1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
Roughly how many stars are in the Milky Way Galaxy? A) 1 billion
B) 100 billion C) 10 billion D) 100 million E) 100 trillion
Which of the following statements does not use the term light-year in an appropriate way? A) It's about 4 light-years from here to Alpha Centauri.
B) It will take me light-years to complete this homework assignment.
C) A light-year is about 10 trillion kilometres.
D) It will take the Voyager spacecraft about 20,000 years to travel just 1 light-year. E) The Milky Way Galaxy is about 100,000 light-years in diameter. 
What makes the North Star, Polaris, special?
A) It is the brightest star in the sky.
B) It is the star straight overhead.
C) It appears very near the north celestial pole.
D) It is the star directly on your northern horizon.
E) It can be used to determine your longitude on Earth.
If the Moon is setting at 6 A.M., the phase of the Moon must be
A) first quarter.
B) third quarter.
C) full.
D) new.
E) waning crescent.
Kepler's second law, which states that as a planet moves around its orbit it sweeps out equal areas in equal times, means that
A) a planet travels faster when it is nearer to the Sun and slower when it is farther from the Sun.
B) a planet's period does not depend on the eccentricity of its orbit.
C) planets that are farther from the Sun move at slower average speeds than nearer
planets.
D) the period of a planet does not depend on its mass.
E) planets have circular orbits.
AST101H1F FINAL EXAM, DECEMBER 2016 PAGE 2 OF 16

 6. What would happen if the Space Shuttle were launched with a speed greater than Earth's escape velocity?
A) It would travel away from Earth into the solar system.
B) It would travel in a higher orbit around Earth.
C) It would take less time to reach its bound orbit.
D) It would orbit Earth at a faster velocity.
E) It would be in an unstable orbit.
7. At which lunar phase(s) are tides least pronounced (e.g., the lowest high tides)? A) first quarter
B) new Moon
C) full Moon
D) both new and full Moons E) both first and third quarters
8. At the centre of the Sun, fusion converts hydrogen into A) hydrogen compounds.
B) Plasma.
C) radiation and elements like carbon and nitrogen. D) radioactive elements like uranium and plutonium. E) helium, energy, and neutrinos.
9. Grass appears green because
A) it emits green light and absorbs other colours. B) it absorbs green light and emits other colours. C) it transmits green light and emits other colours. D) it reflects green light and absorbs other colours.
10. If you heat a gas so that collisions are continually bumping electrons to higher energy levels, when the electrons fall back to lower energy levels the gas produces
A) thermal radiation.
B) an absorption line spectrum. C) an emission line spectrum. D) X-rays.
E) radio waves.
11. We can learn a lot about the properties of a star by studying its spectrum. All of the following statements are true except one. Which one?
A) The peak of the star's thermal emission tells us its temperature: Hotter stars peak at shorter (bluer) wavelengths.
B) The total amount of light in the spectrum tells us the star's radius.
C) We can identify chemical elements present in the star by recognizing patterns of
spectral lines that correspond to particular chemicals.
D) We can look at Doppler shifts of spectral lines to determine the star's speed toward or
away from us.
AST101H1F FINAL EXAM, DECEMBER 2016 PAGE 3 OF 16

 12. The nebular theory of the formation of the solar system successfully predicts all but one of the following. Which one does the theory not predict?
A) Planets orbit around the Sun in nearly circular orbits in a flattened disk. B) the compositional differences between the terrestrial and jovian planets C) the equal number of terrestrial and jovian planets
D) asteroids, Kuiper-belt comets, and the Oort cloud
E) the craters on the Moon
13. What was the frost line of the solar system?
A) the distance from the Sun where temperatures were low enough for metals to
condense, between the Sun and the present-day orbit of Mercury
B) the distance from the Sun where temperatures were low enough for rocks to condense,
between the present-day orbits of Mercury and Venus
C) the distance from the Sun where temperatures were low enough for hydrogen
compounds to condense into ices, between the present-day orbits of Mars and Jupiter
D) the distance from the Sun where temperatures were low enough for asteroids to form,
between the present-day orbits of Venus and Earth
E) the distance from the Sun where temperatures were low enough for hydrogen and
helium to condense, between the present-day orbits of Jupiter and Saturn
14. According to our theory of solar system formation, which law best explains why the solar nebula spun faster as it shrank in size?
A) the law of conservation of angular momentum B) the law of conservation of energy
C) the law of universal gravitation
D) Einstein's law E = mc2
15. Rank the five terrestrial worlds in order of size from smallest to largest. A) Mercury, Venus, Earth, Moon, Mars
B) Mercury, Moon, Venus, Earth, Mars
C) Moon, Mercury, Venus, Earth, Mars
D) Moon, Mercury, Mars, Venus, Earth E) Mercury, Moon, Mars, Earth, Venus
16. The terrestrial planet cores contain mostly metal because
A) the entire planets are made mostly of metal.
B) metals condensed first in the solar nebula and the rocks then accreted around them. C) metals sank to the centre during a time when the interiors were molten throughout. D) radioactivity created metals in the core from the decay of uranium.
E) convection carried the metals to the core.
AST101H1F FINAL EXAM, DECEMBER 2016 PAGE 4 OF 16

 17. The three principal sources of internal heat of terrestrial planets are A) conduction, differentiation, and accretion.
B) accretion, differentiation, and radioactivity.
C) accretion, differentiation, and eruption.
D) convection, differentiation, and eruption. E) conduction, convection, and eruption.
18. Heat escapes from a planet's surface into space by thermal radiation. Planets radiate almost entirely in the wavelength range of the
A) infrared.
B) Radio.
C) Visible.
D) Ultraviolet.
E) none of the above
19. How does the greenhouse effect work?
A) Greenhouse gases transmit visible light, allowing it to heat the surface, but then
absorb infrared light from Earth, trapping the heat near the surface.
B) The higher pressure of the thick atmosphere at lower altitudes traps heat in more
effectively.
C) Ozone transmits visible light, allowing it to heat the surface, but then absorbs most of
the infrared heat, trapping the heat near the surface.
D) Greenhouse gases absorb X-rays and ultraviolet light from the Sun, which then heat
the atmosphere and the surface.
E) Greenhouse gases absorb infrared light from the Sun, which then heats the
atmosphere and the surface.
20. Why isn't Earth's atmosphere mostly hydrogen?
A) Earth formed too close to the Sun for any planetesimals to have hydrogen.
B) All the hydrogen was blasted away during the early bombardment stage of the solar
system.
C) Light gases such as hydrogen move faster than heavier gases and escape from Earth's
gravitational field.
D) The hydrogen is frozen in the polar ice caps.
E) All the hydrogen reacted with oxygen and formed the oceans.
21. Which of the following show evidence of ancient river beds?
A) the Moon
B) Mercury
C) Venus
D) Mars
E) all of the above
AST101H1F FINAL EXAM, DECEMBER 2016
PAGE 5 OF 16

 22. Olympus Mons is a
A) shield volcano on Mars.
B) stratovolcano on Mercury. C) large lava plain on the Moon. D) shield volcano on Venus.
E) stratovolcano on the Moon.
23. Why do asteroids and comets differ in composition?
A) Asteroids formed inside the frost line, while comets formed outside.
B) Asteroids and comets formed at different times.
C) Comets formed from the jovian nebula, while asteroids did not.
D) Comets are much larger than asteroids.
E) Asteroids are much larger than comets.
24. Why aren't small asteroids spherical in shape?
A) The strength of gravity on small asteroids is less than the strength of the rock.
B) Small asteroids have odd shapes because they were all chipped off larger objects.
C) Large asteroids were once molten and therefore became spherical, but small asteroids
were never molten.
D) Large asteroids became spherical because many small collisions chipped off pieces
until only a sphere was left; this did not occur with small asteroids.
25. Why does the plasma tail of a comet always point away from the Sun?
A) The solar wind electromagnetically "blows" the ions directly away from the Sun.
B) Radiation pressure from the Sun's light pushes the ions away.
C) The conservation of the angular momentum of the tail keeps it always pointing away
from the Sun.
D) Gases from the comet, heated by the Sun, push the tail away from the Sun.
E) It is allergic to sunlight.
26. Which of the following statements is not true?
A) Objects in the asteroid belt are made mostly of rock and metal.
B) Objects in the Kuiper belt are made mostly of rock and metal.
C) Objects in the Oort cloud contain large proportions of ice.
D) Objects in the asteroid belt and Kuiper belt orbit the Sun in nearly the same plane as
the planets, but objects in the Oort cloud do not.
27. What is Jupiter's Great Red Spot?
A) the place where reddish particles from Io impact Jupiter's surface B) a hurricane that comes and goes on Jupiter
C) a large mountain peak poking up above the clouds
D) a long-lived, high-pressure storm
E) the place where Jupiter's aurora is most visible
AST101H1F FINAL EXAM, DECEMBER 2016
PAGE 6 OF 16

 28. Why are there no impact craters on the surface of Io?
A) It is too small to have been bombarded by planetesimals in the early solar system.
B) Jupiter's strong gravity attracted the planetesimals more strongly than Io and thus none
landed on its surface.
C) Io did have impact craters but they have all been buried in lava flows.
D) Any craters that existed have been eroded through the strong winds on Io's surface.
E) Io's thick atmosphere obscures the view of the craters.
29. The fact that most moons always show the same face to their planet is
A) very surprising and a great mystery.
B) a natural consequence of the fact that the entire solar nebula rotated in the same
direction.
C) explained by the law of conservation of angular momentum.
D) a natural consequence of tidal forces acting on the moons.
E) a result of the fact that the moons once had atmospheres.
30. What mechanism is most responsible for generating the internal heat of Io that drives the volcanic activity?
A) accretion
B) radioactive decay C) differentiation
D) tidal heating
E) bombardment
31. How thick are Saturn's rings from top to bottom? A) a few million kilometres
B) a few tens of thousands of kilometres C) a few hundred kilometres
D) a few kilometres
E) a few tens of meters
32. How does Jupiter's core compare to Earth?
A) It is the same size and mass.
B) It is about 10 times larger both in size and mass.
C) It is about 10 times larger in size and the same mass.
D) It is about the same size but is 10 times more massive.
E) Jupiter doesn't have a core—it is made entirely from hydrogen and helium.
33. What is the most abundant gas in Titan's atmosphere? A) methane
B) nitrogen
C) hydrogen compounds D) oxygen
E) argon
AST101H1F FINAL EXAM, DECEMBER 2016
PAGE 7 OF 16

 34. Planets detected via the Radial Velocity (Doppler) technique have been mostly A) Earth-mass, in Earth-like orbits.
B) Jupiter-mass, in Jupiter-like orbits.
C) Jupiter-mass, in very close orbits.
D) Earth-mass, in very close orbits.
E) a wide range of masses, in edge-on orbits.
35. A planet is detected via the Radial Velocity (Doppler) technique. The velocity change of the star is a measure of
A) the planet's radius and density.
B) the planet's mass and orbital distance.
C) the planet's mass and composition.
D) the planet's orbital period and eccentricity. E) the planet's radius and orbital distance.
36. Which planet can we see occasionally transit across the face of the Sun?
A) Mercury
B) Mars
C) Jupiter
D) Uranus
E) all of the above
37. The transit method of planet detection works best for A) big planets in edge-on orbits around small stars. B) big planets in face-on orbits around small stars. C) small planets in edge-on orbits around big stars. D) small planets in face-on orbits around big stars. E) Earth-like planets in any orbit.
38. The Radial Velocity (Doppler) technique only provides a measure of the minimum mass of a planet because
A) only a small part of the planet's motion is measured.
B) without a transit observation, the size and therefore density of the planet is unknown. C) we do not know the exact composition of the planet.
D) only the motion of star toward the observer is measured, not the full motion.
E) we do not have the technology to make a direct image of a planet yet.
AST101H1F FINAL EXAM, DECEMBER 2016 PAGE 8 OF 16

 39. Which of the following statements best reflects our current knowledge about the term flife in the equation 
Number of Civilizations = Np × flife × fcivilization × fnow?
A) The value of flife must be either 0 percent or 100 percent.
B) The value of flife is between 0 percent and 100 percent.
C) The value of flife is between 0 percent and 1 percent.
D) The value of flife is roughly 50 percent.
E) The value of flife is presently unknown but should be well known within just a few
years.
40. At present, what is the primary way that the search for extraterrestrial intelligence (SETI) is carried out?
A) by searching for planets around distant stars
B) by using large X-ray telescopes to search for signals from extraterrestrial civilizations
C) by using radio telescopes to search for signals from extraterrestrial civilizations
D) by analyzing high-resolution images of nearby stars in search of evidence of structures
that could not have developed naturally
E) by seeking access to the secret records and alien corpses kept at Area 51
41. How do the jovian planet interiors differ?
A) All have cores of about the same mass, but differ in the amount of surrounding
hydrogen and helium.
B) The core mass decreases with the mass of the planet.
C) The composition changes from mostly ammonia in Jupiter and Saturn to mostly
methane in Uranus and Neptune.
D) The composition changes from mostly hydrogen in Jupiter and Saturn to mostly
helium in Uranus and Neptune.
E) All have about the same amount of hydrogen and helium but the proportion of rocks is
greater in those planets closer to the Sun.
42. What do asteroids and comets have in common?
A) Most are unchanged since their formation in the solar nebula. B) They have similar densities.
C) They have similar orbital radii.
D) They have a similar range of orbital inclinations.
E) They have nothing in common with each other.
43. What is differentiation in planetary geology?
A) the process by which gravity separates materials according to density
B) the process by which different types of minerals form a conglomerate rock
C) any process by which a planet's surface evolves differently from another planet's
surface
D) any process by which one part of a planet's surface evolves differently from another
part of the same planet's surface
E) any process by which a planet evolves differently from its moons
AST101H1F FINAL EXAM, DECEMBER 2016 PAGE 9 OF 16

 44. Which internal energy source is the most important in continuing to heat the terrestrial planets today?
A) accretion
B) differentiation C) radioactivity D) tidal heating
E) all of the above
45. Which of the following planets has the least substantial atmosphere? A) Venus
B) Earth
C) Mars
D) Neptune E) Mercury
46. Why are the inner planets made of denser materials than the outer planets?
A) The Sun's gravity pulled denser materials toward the inner part of the solar nebula,
while lighter gases escaped more easily.
B) Denser materials were heavier and sank to the center of the nebula.
C) In the inner part of the nebula only metals and rocks were able to condense because of
the high temperatures, whereas hydrogen compounds, although more abundant, were
only able to condense in the cooler outer regions.
D) When the solar nebula formed a disk, materials naturally segregated into bands, and in
our particular solar system the denser materials settled nearer the Sun while lighter
materials are found in the outer part.
E) In the beginning, when the protoplanetary disk was spinning faster, centrifugal forces
flung the lighter materials toward the outer parts of the solar nebula.
47. At extremely high temperatures (e.g., millions of degrees), which of the following best describes the phase of matter?
A) a gas of rapidly moving molecules
B) a plasma consisting of positively charged ions and free electrons C) a gas consisting of individual, neutral atoms, but no molecules D) a plasma consisting of rapidly moving, neutral atoms
E) At these extremely high temperatures, matter cannot exist.
48. If we say that a material is opaque to ultraviolet light, we mean that it A) absorbs ultraviolet light.
B) emits ultraviolet light.
C) transmits ultraviolet light. D) reflects ultraviolet light.
AST101H1F FINAL EXAM, DECEMBER 2016
PAGE 10 OF 16

 49. Suppose you look at a spectrum of visible light by looking through a prism or diffraction grating. How can you decide whether it is an emission line spectrum or an absorption line spectrum?
A) An emission line spectrum consists of bright lines on a dark background, while an absorption line spectrum consists of dark lines on a rainbow background.
B) An emission line spectrum consists of a long bright line, while an absorption line spectrum consists of a long dark line.
C) The only way to decide is to make a graph of the intensity of the light at every wavelength, and then analyze the graph carefully.
D) The emission line spectrum is produced by electrons jumping up in energy level, while the absorption line spectrum is produced by electrons jumping down in energy level.
50. The overall fusion reaction by which the Sun currently produces energy is
A) 3 H ⇒ 1 Li + energy.
B) 3 He ⇒ 1 C + energy.
C) 4 H ⇒ 4 He + energy.
D) 6 H ⇒ 1 He + energy.
E) 4 H ⇒ 1 He + energy.
All answers to Part A questions MUST be transferred to the bubble sheet to count for marks!
 AST101H1F FINAL EXAM, DECEMBER 2016 PAGE 11 OF 16

 PART B: Short answer questions. Answer the following question in
the space provided. Point form is acceptable where appropriate. Marks may be deducted for lack of clarity or concision.
1. [12 marks] Several planets in our solar system show evidence of a collision with another large planetesimal during the formation of the solar system. List two of these planets and state what the evidence is. In stating your evidence, explain what would be different if the collision had not happened, and why it would be different.
Planet 1: ___________________ Evidence:
   Planet 2: ___________________ Evidence:
AST101H1F FINAL EXAM, DECEMBER 2016
PAGE 12 OF 16

 2. Seasons
A) [6 marks] Today, it is late fall here in Toronto. What season is it right now in Santiago, Chile, in the Southern Hemisphere, around 33 degrees south of the Equator?
Explain. Your explanation should include a diagram. The diagram should include the Earth, the Sun (or direction to the Sun), the approximate locations of Toronto and Santiago, as well as anything else you need to explain the situation. In your diagram, assume that Santiago is due south of Toronto (even though this isn't strictly true).
B) [4 marks] Would you expect greater seasonal temperature variations at the South Pole (Antarctica) or in Kampala, Uganda (near the equator)? Explain.
C) [2 marks] When, during the year, are days and nights approximately the same length in Toronto?
D) [2 marks] When, during the year, are days and nights approximately the same length in Santiago, Chile? 
AST101H1F FINAL EXAM, DECEMBER 2016 PAGE 13 OF 16

 3. Planet Transits:
In the plot of a transiting planet light curve indicate: a) [2 marks] What the X axis represents
b) [2 marks] What the Y axis represents
c) [4 marks] On the same plot, draw what the light curve would look like if the transiting planet were smaller, but at the same orbital distance (just draw the curve – you don’t need to draw all the points).
d) [4 marks] Most planets around other nearby stars cannot be detected from Earth using the transit method. Explain (you can use a diagram if this is helpful).
 AST101H1F FINAL EXAM, DECEMBER 2016 PAGE 14 OF 16

 4. Comparative Planetology
Imagine that an extra-solar planet has been discovered around a sun-like star which is about 5 billion years old. The planet has the following properties:
Mass: 0.01 Earth Mass
Radius: 1/4 Earth Radius
Orbital Distance: 1 AU
Orbital eccentricity: nearly circular
In answering the questions, be sure to refer to these properties (when relevant) as part of your explanation!
a) [2 marks] What do you expect the atmosphere of this planet to be like? Explain.
b) [2 marks] What level of cratering do you expect? Explain.
c) [2 marks] What level of volcanism do you expect? Explain.
d) [2 marks] What do you expect the composition of the planet to be like (i.e. what kinds of things is it probably made of)? Explain?
AST101H1F FINAL EXAM, DECEMBER 2016 PAGE 15 OF 16

 4. (continued)
e) [2 marks] Is it likely that this extra-solar planet could have been discovered by Radial Velocity measurements? Explain.
f) [2 marks] List one significant change (in composition, atmosphere, volcanism, or cratering) that you would expect if the planet’s mass were 200 times greater. Explain.
THE END -- TOTAL MARKS 100
AST101H1F FINAL EXAM, DECEMBER 2016 PAGE 16 OF 16

 UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO Faculty of Arts and Science
DECEMBER 2016 EXAMINATIONS AST101H1F
Duration – 3 hours No Aids Allowed
FIRST NAME: ____________________________ LAST NAME: ____________________________ STUDENT NUMBER: ______________________ UTORID: (e.g. smitha4) ____________________
Instructions:
1. ON THIS PAGE: Fill in your identifying information above. Make sure you fill in your name AS IT APPEARS ON ROSI.
2. ON THE BUBBLE SHEET: Fill in your last name, first initial, and student number in the spaces given and, using pencil, darkly shade in the corresponding bubbles. Then sign the card. There is no form code.
3. For multiple choice questions, mark all answers on the bubble sheet by darkly shading the appropriate bubbles. Only answers on the bubble sheet will count for marks.
4. Answer short answer questions in the spaces provided.
5. Make sure that your exam paper has 16 pages.
6. This exam is out of 100 marks.
 AST101H1F FINAL EXAM, DECEMBER 2016 PAGE 1 OF 16

 PART A: [1 mark each] For each question, choose the MOST
CORRECT answer and TRANSFER YOUR ANSWERS TO THE BUBBLE SHEET WHEN YOU ARE DONE.
   1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
Roughly how many stars are in the Milky Way Galaxy? A) 1 billion
B) 100 billion * C) 10 billion D) 100 million E) 100 trillion
Which of the following statements does not use the term light-year in an appropriate way? A) It's about 4 light-years from here to Alpha Centauri.
B) It will take me light-years to complete this homework assignment. *
C) A light-year is about 10 trillion kilometres.
D) It will take the Voyager spacecraft about 20,000 years to travel just 1 light-year. E) The Milky Way Galaxy is about 100,000 light-years in diameter. 
What makes the North Star, Polaris, special?
A) It is the brightest star in the sky.
B) It is the star straight overhead.
C) It appears very near the north celestial pole. *
D) It is the star directly on your northern horizon.
E) It can be used to determine your longitude on Earth.
If the Moon is setting at 6 A.M., the phase of the Moon must be
A) first quarter.
B) third quarter.
C) full. *
D) new.
E) waning crescent.
Kepler's second law, which states that as a planet moves around its orbit it sweeps out equal areas in equal times, means that
A) a planet travels faster when it is nearer to the Sun and slower when it is farther from the Sun. *
B) a planet's period does not depend on the eccentricity of its orbit.
C) planets that are farther from the Sun move at slower average speeds than nearer
planets.
D) the period of a planet does not depend on its mass.
E) planets have circular orbits.
AST101H1F FINAL EXAM, DECEMBER 2016 PAGE 2 OF 16

 6. What would happen if the Space Shuttle were launched with a speed greater than Earth's escape velocity?
A) It would travel away from Earth into the solar system. *
B) It would travel in a higher orbit around Earth.
C) It would take less time to reach its bound orbit.
D) It would orbit Earth at a faster velocity.
E) It would be in an unstable orbit.
7. At which lunar phase(s) are tides least pronounced (e.g., the lowest high tides)? A) first quarter
B) new Moon
C) full Moon
D) both new and full Moons
E) both first and third quarters *
8. At the centre of the Sun, fusion converts hydrogen into A) hydrogen compounds.
B) Plasma.
C) radiation and elements like carbon and nitrogen. D) radioactive elements like uranium and plutonium. E) helium, energy, and neutrinos. *
9. Grass appears green because
A) it emits green light and absorbs other colours.
B) it absorbs green light and emits other colours.
C) it transmits green light and emits other colours. D) it reflects green light and absorbs other colours. *
10. If you heat a gas so that collisions are continually bumping electrons to higher energy levels, when the electrons fall back to lower energy levels the gas produces
A) thermal radiation.
B) an absorption line spectrum. C) an emission line spectrum. * D) X-rays.
E) radio waves.
11. We can learn a lot about the properties of a star by studying its spectrum. All of the following statements are true except one. Which one?
A) The peak of the star's thermal emission tells us its temperature: Hotter stars peak at shorter (bluer) wavelengths.
B) The total amount of light in the spectrum tells us the star's radius. *
C) We can identify chemical elements present in the star by recognizing patterns of
spectral lines that correspond to particular chemicals.
D) We can look at Doppler shifts of spectral lines to determine the star's speed toward or
away from us.
AST101H1F FINAL EXAM, DECEMBER 2016 PAGE 3 OF 16

 12. The nebular theory of the formation of the solar system successfully predicts all but one of the following. Which one does the theory not predict?
A) Planets orbit around the Sun in nearly circular orbits in a flattened disk. B) the compositional differences between the terrestrial and jovian planets C) the equal number of terrestrial and jovian planets *
D) asteroids, Kuiper-belt comets, and the Oort cloud
E) the craters on the Moon
13. What was the frost line of the solar system?
A) the distance from the Sun where temperatures were low enough for metals to
condense, between the Sun and the present-day orbit of Mercury
B) the distance from the Sun where temperatures were low enough for rocks to condense,
between the present-day orbits of Mercury and Venus
C) the distance from the Sun where temperatures were low enough for hydrogen
compounds to condense into ices, between the present-day orbits of Mars and Jupiter *
D) the distance from the Sun where temperatures were low enough for asteroids to form,
between the present-day orbits of Venus and Earth
E) the distance from the Sun where temperatures were low enough for hydrogen and
helium to condense, between the present-day orbits of Jupiter and Saturn
14. According to our theory of solar system formation, which law best explains why the solar nebula spun faster as it shrank in size?
A) the law of conservation of angular momentum * B) the law of conservation of energy
C) the law of universal gravitation
D) Einstein's law E = mc2
15. Rank the five terrestrial worlds in order of size from smallest to largest. A) Mercury, Venus, Earth, Moon, Mars
B) Mercury, Moon, Venus, Earth, Mars
C) Moon, Mercury, Venus, Earth, Mars
D) Moon, Mercury, Mars, Venus, Earth * E) Mercury, Moon, Mars, Earth, Venus
16. The terrestrial planet cores contain mostly metal because
A) the entire planets are made mostly of metal.
B) metals condensed first in the solar nebula and the rocks then accreted around them. C) metals sank to the centre during a time when the interiors were molten throughout. * D) radioactivity created metals in the core from the decay of uranium.
E) convection carried the metals to the core.
AST101H1F FINAL EXAM, DECEMBER 2016 PAGE 4 OF 16

 17. The three principal sources of internal heat of terrestrial planets are A) conduction, differentiation, and accretion.
B) accretion, differentiation, and radioactivity. *
C) accretion, differentiation, and eruption.
D) convection, differentiation, and eruption. E) conduction, convection, and eruption.
18. Heat escapes from a planet's surface into space by thermal radiation. Planets radiate almost entirely in the wavelength range of the
A) infrared. *
B) Radio.
C) Visible.
D) Ultraviolet.
E) none of the above
19. How does the greenhouse effect work?
A) Greenhouse gases transmit visible light, allowing it to heat the surface, but then
absorb infrared light from Earth, trapping the heat near the surface. *
B) The higher pressure of the thick atmosphere at lower altitudes traps heat in more
effectively.
C) Ozone transmits visible light, allowing it to heat the surface, but then absorbs most of
the infrared heat, trapping the heat near the surface.
D) Greenhouse gases absorb X-rays and ultraviolet light from the Sun, which then heat
the atmosphere and the surface.
E) Greenhouse gases absorb infrared light from the Sun, which then heats the
atmosphere and the surface.
20. Why isn't Earth's atmosphere mostly hydrogen?
A) Earth formed too close to the Sun for any planetesimals to have hydrogen.
B) All the hydrogen was blasted away during the early bombardment stage of the solar
system.
C) Light gases such as hydrogen move faster than heavier gases and escape from Earth's
gravitational field. *
D) The hydrogen is frozen in the polar ice caps.
E) All the hydrogen reacted with oxygen and formed the oceans.
21. Which of the following show evidence of ancient river beds?
A) the Moon
B) Mercury
C) Venus
D) Mars *
E) all of the above
AST101H1F FINAL EXAM, DECEMBER 2016
PAGE 5 OF 16

 22. Olympus Mons is a
A) shield volcano on Mars. *
B) stratovolcano on Mercury. C) large lava plain on the Moon. D) shield volcano on Venus.
E) stratovolcano on the Moon.
23. Why do asteroids and comets differ in composition?
A) Asteroids formed inside the frost line, while comets formed outside. *
B) Asteroids and comets formed at different times.
C) Comets formed from the jovian nebula, while asteroids did not.
D) Comets are much larger than asteroids.
E) Asteroids are much larger than comets.
24. Why aren't small asteroids spherical in shape?
A) The strength of gravity on small asteroids is less than the strength of the rock. *
B) Small asteroids have odd shapes because they were all chipped off larger objects.
C) Large asteroids were once molten and therefore became spherical, but small asteroids
were never molten.
D) Large asteroids became spherical because many small collisions chipped off pieces
until only a sphere was left; this did not occur with small asteroids.
25. Why does the plasma tail of a comet always point away from the Sun?
A) The solar wind electromagnetically "blows" the ions directly away from the Sun. *
B) Radiation pressure from the Sun's light pushes the ions away.
C) The conservation of the angular momentum of the tail keeps it always pointing away
from the Sun.
D) Gases from the comet, heated by the Sun, push the tail away from the Sun.
E) It is allergic to sunlight.
26. Which of the following statements is not true?
A) Objects in the asteroid belt are made mostly of rock and metal.
B) Objects in the Kuiper belt are made mostly of rock and metal. *
C) Objects in the Oort cloud contain large proportions of ice.
D) Objects in the asteroid belt and Kuiper belt orbit the Sun in nearly the same plane as
the planets, but objects in the Oort cloud do not.
27. What is Jupiter's Great Red Spot?
A) the place where reddish particles from Io impact Jupiter's surface B) a hurricane that comes and goes on Jupiter
C) a large mountain peak poking up above the clouds
D) a long-lived, high-pressure storm *
E) the place where Jupiter's aurora is most visible
AST101H1F FINAL EXAM, DECEMBER 2016
PAGE 6 OF 16

 28. Why are there no impact craters on the surface of Io?
A) It is too small to have been bombarded by planetesimals in the early solar system.
B) Jupiter's strong gravity attracted the planetesimals more strongly than Io and thus none
landed on its surface.
C) Io did have impact craters but they have all been buried in lava flows. *
D) Any craters that existed have been eroded through the strong winds on Io's surface.
E) Io's thick atmosphere obscures the view of the craters.
29. The fact that most moons always show the same face to their planet is
A) very surprising and a great mystery.
B) a natural consequence of the fact that the entire solar nebula rotated in the same
direction.
C) explained by the law of conservation of angular momentum.
D) a natural consequence of tidal forces acting on the moons. *
E) a result of the fact that the moons once had atmospheres.
30. What mechanism is most responsible for generating the internal heat of Io that drives the volcanic activity?
A) accretion
B) radioactive decay C) differentiation
D) tidal heating *
E) bombardment
31. How thick are Saturn's rings from top to bottom? A) a few million kilometres
B) a few tens of thousands of kilometres C) a few hundred kilometres
D) a few kilometres
E) a few tens of meters *
32. How does Jupiter's core compare to Earth?
A) It is the same size and mass.
B) It is about 10 times larger both in size and mass.
C) It is about 10 times larger in size and the same mass.
D) It is about the same size but is 10 times more massive. *
E) Jupiter doesn't have a core—it is made entirely from hydrogen and helium.
33. What is the most abundant gas in Titan's atmosphere? A) methane
B) nitrogen *
C) hydrogen compounds D) oxygen
E) argon
AST101H1F FINAL EXAM, DECEMBER 2016
PAGE 7 OF 16

 34. Planets detected via the Radial Velocity (Doppler) technique have been mostly A) Earth-mass, in Earth-like orbits.
B) Jupiter-mass, in Jupiter-like orbits.
C) Jupiter-mass, in very close orbits. *
D) Earth-mass, in very close orbits.
E) a wide range of masses, in edge-on orbits.
35. A planet is detected via the Radial Velocity (Doppler) technique. The velocity change of the star is a measure of
A) the planet's radius and density.
B) the planet's mass and orbital distance. *
C) the planet's mass and composition.
D) the planet's orbital period and eccentricity. E) the planet's radius and orbital distance.
36. Which planet can we see occasionally transit across the face of the Sun?
A) Mercury *
B) Mars
C) Jupiter
D) Uranus
E) all of the above
37. The transit method of planet detection works best for
A) big planets in edge-on orbits around small stars. * B) big planets in face-on orbits around small stars. C) small planets in edge-on orbits around big stars. D) small planets in face-on orbits around big stars. E) Earth-like planets in any orbit.
38. The Radial Velocity (Doppler) technique only provides a measure of the minimum mass of a planet because
A) only a small part of the planet's motion is measured.
B) without a transit observation, the size and therefore density of the planet is unknown. C) we do not know the exact composition of the planet.
D) only the motion of star toward the observer is measured, not the full motion. *
E) we do not have the technology to make a direct image of a planet yet.
AST101H1F FINAL EXAM, DECEMBER 2016 PAGE 8 OF 16

 39. Which of the following statements best reflects our current knowledge about the term flife in the equation 
Number of Civilizations = Np × flife × fcivilization × fnow?
A) The value of flife must be either 0 percent or 100 percent.
B) The value of flife is between 0 percent and 100 percent. *
C) The value of flife is between 0 percent and 1 percent.
D) The value of flife is roughly 50 percent.
E) The value of flife is presently unknown but should be well known within just a few
years.
40. At present, what is the primary way that the search for extraterrestrial intelligence (SETI) is carried out?
A) by searching for planets around distant stars
B) by using large X-ray telescopes to search for signals from extraterrestrial civilizations
C) by using radio telescopes to search for signals from extraterrestrial civilizations *
D) by analyzing high-resolution images of nearby stars in search of evidence of structures
that could not have developed naturally
E) by seeking access to the secret records and alien corpses kept at Area 51
41. How do the jovian planet interiors differ?
A) All have cores of about the same mass, but differ in the amount of surrounding
hydrogen and helium. *
B) The core mass decreases with the mass of the planet.
C) The composition changes from mostly ammonia in Jupiter and Saturn to mostly
methane in Uranus and Neptune.
D) The composition changes from mostly hydrogen in Jupiter and Saturn to mostly
helium in Uranus and Neptune.
E) All have about the same amount of hydrogen and helium but the proportion of rocks is
greater in those planets closer to the Sun.
42. What do asteroids and comets have in common?
A) Most are unchanged since their formation in the solar nebula. * B) They have similar densities.
C) They have similar orbital radii.
D) They have a similar range of orbital inclinations.
E) They have nothing in common with each other.
43. What is differentiation in planetary geology?
A) the process by which gravity separates materials according to density *
B) the process by which different types of minerals form a conglomerate rock
C) any process by which a planet's surface evolves differently from another planet's
surface
D) any process by which one part of a planet's surface evolves differently from another
part of the same planet's surface
E) any process by which a planet evolves differently from its moons
AST101H1F FINAL EXAM, DECEMBER 2016 PAGE 9 OF 16

 44. Which internal energy source is the most important in continuing to heat the terrestrial planets today?
A) accretion
B) differentiation C) radioactivity * D) tidal heating
E) all of the above
45. Which of the following planets has the least substantial atmosphere? A) Venus
B) Earth
C) Mars
D) Neptune E) Mercury *
46. Why are the inner planets made of denser materials than the outer planets?
A) The Sun's gravity pulled denser materials toward the inner part of the solar nebula,
while lighter gases escaped more easily.
B) Denser materials were heavier and sank to the center of the nebula.
C) In the inner part of the nebula only metals and rocks were able to condense because of
the high temperatures, whereas hydrogen compounds, although more abundant, were
only able to condense in the cooler outer regions. *
D) When the solar nebula formed a disk, materials naturally segregated into bands, and in
our particular solar system the denser materials settled nearer the Sun while lighter
materials are found in the outer part.
E) In the beginning, when the protoplanetary disk was spinning faster, centrifugal forces
flung the lighter materials toward the outer parts of the solar nebula.
47. At extremely high temperatures (e.g., millions of degrees), which of the following best describes the phase of matter?
A) a gas of rapidly moving molecules
B) a plasma consisting of positively charged ions and free electrons * C) a gas consisting of individual, neutral atoms, but no molecules
D) a plasma consisting of rapidly moving, neutral atoms
E) At these extremely high temperatures, matter cannot exist.
48. If we say that a material is opaque to ultraviolet light, we mean that it A) absorbs ultraviolet light. *
B) emits ultraviolet light.
C) transmits ultraviolet light. D) reflects ultraviolet light.
AST101H1F FINAL EXAM, DECEMBER 2016
PAGE 10 OF 16

 49. Suppose you look at a spectrum of visible light by looking through a prism or diffraction grating. How can you decide whether it is an emission line spectrum or an absorption line spectrum?
A) An emission line spectrum consists of bright lines on a dark background, while an absorption line spectrum consists of dark lines on a rainbow background. *
B) An emission line spectrum consists of a long bright line, while an absorption line spectrum consists of a long dark line.
C) The only way to decide is to make a graph of the intensity of the light at every wavelength, and then analyze the graph carefully.
D) The emission line spectrum is produced by electrons jumping up in energy level, while the absorption line spectrum is produced by electrons jumping down in energy level.
50. The overall fusion reaction by which the Sun currently produces energy is
A) 3 H ⇒ 1 Li + energy.
B) 3 He ⇒ 1 C + energy.
C) 4 H ⇒ 4 He + energy.
D) 6 H ⇒ 1 He + energy.
E) 4 H ⇒ 1 He + energy. *
All answers to Part A questions MUST be transferred to the bubble sheet to count for marks!
 AST101H1F FINAL EXAM, DECEMBER 2016 PAGE 11 OF 16

 PART B: Short answer questions. Answer the following question in
the space provided. Point form is acceptable where appropriate. Marks may be deducted for lack of clarity or concision.
1. [12 marks] Several planets in our solar system show evidence of a collision with another large planetesimal during the formation of the solar system. List two of these planets and state what the evidence is. In stating your evidence, explain what would be different if the collision had not happened, and why it would be different.
   Planet 1: ___________________ Evidence:
Possible answers:
 
Mercury: 
Evidence: very thin mantle 
w/out collision: thick mantle, like other terrestrial planets.
Venus: 
Evidence: rotating opposite directions to other planets and/or its orbit. 
w/out collision: would rotate in the same direction of the other planets and/or its orbit.
Earth: 
Evidence: Very large moon, made from the earth's mantle w/out collision: would not have a large moon.
Uranus: 
Evidence: rotation axis points close to the ecliptic 
w/out collision: rotation axis would be (roughly) perpendicular to the ecliptic
Planet 2: ___________________ Evidence:
AST101H1F FINAL EXAM, DECEMBER 2016 PAGE 12 OF 16

 2. Seasons
A) [6 marks] Today, it is late fall here in Toronto. What season is it right now in Santiago, Chile, in the Southern Hemisphere, around 33 degrees south of the Equator?
Explain. Your explanation should include a diagram. The diagram should include the Earth, the Sun (or direction to the Sun), the approximate locations of Toronto and Santiago, as well as anything else you need to explain the situation. In your diagram, assume that Santiago is due south of Toronto (even though this isn't strictly true).
Late Spring 
State: Currently Longer days and/or higher sun in Santiago than Toronto.
Diagram that shows: 
Earth with Toronto, Santiago and rotation axis roughly accurate (ie Toronto in North, Santiago in south) 
Direction to the sun normal to the south.
B) [4 marks] Would you expect greater seasonal temperature variations at the South Pole (Antarctica) or in Kampala, Uganda (near the equator)? Explain.
Much greater sunlight variation and/or day length variation between summer and winter in the south pole
C) [2 marks] When, during the year, are days and nights approximately the same length in Toronto?
Early Spring or Late winter or March 21 or similar. Start of Fall or late summer or Sept 21 or similar.
D) [2 marks] When, during the year, are days and nights approximately the same length in Santiago, Chile? 
Early Spring or Late winter or March 21 or similar. Start of Fall or late summer or Sept 21 or similar.
AST101H1F FINAL EXAM, DECEMBER 2016 PAGE 13 OF 16

 3. Planet Transits:
In the plot of a transiting planet light curve indicate: a) [2 marks] What the X axis represents
time or orbital phase
b) [2 marks] What the Y axis represents
brightness or intensity or amount of light or colloquial synonym
c) [4 marks] On the same plot, draw what the light curve would look like if the transiting planet were smaller, but at the same orbital distance (just draw the curve – you don’t need to draw all the points).
dip should be shallower but otherwise the same
d) [4 marks] Most planets around other nearby stars cannot be detected from Earth using the transit method. Explain (you can use a diagram if this is helpful).
Earth must be in orbital plane of the planet.  
 AST101H1F FINAL EXAM, DECEMBER 2016 PAGE 14 OF 16

 4. Comparative Planetology
Imagine that an extra-solar planet has been discovered around a sun-like star which is about 5 billion years old. The planet has the following properties:
Mass: 0.01 Earth Mass
Radius: 1/4 Earth Radius
Orbital Distance: 1 AU
Orbital eccentricity: nearly circular
In answering the questions, be sure to refer to these properties (when relevant) as part of your explanation!
a) [2 marks] What do you expect the atmosphere of this planet to be like? Explain. none or very thin because gravity is not strong enough to keep the gases
b) [2 marks] What level of cratering do you expect? Explain.
Lots of cratering because nothing would have erased the craters.
c) [2 marks] What level of volcanism do you expect? Explain. very little volcanism because it will have cooled quickly
d) [2 marks] What do you expect the composition of the planet to be like (i.e. what kinds of things is it probably made of)? Explain?
Rocky or Rocks and metals. (not ice or gas). Because it is inside the frost line
AST101H1F FINAL EXAM, DECEMBER 2016 PAGE 15 OF 16

 4. (continued)
e) [2 marks] Is it likely that this extra-solar planet could have been discovered by Radial Velocity measurements? Explain.
No because its mass is too low.
f) [2 marks] List one significant change (in composition, atmosphere, volcanism, or cratering) that you would expect if the planet’s mass were 200 times greater. Explain.
There are 3 options: choose one.
Atmosphere: would be thicker because gravity could have kept it (optionally, more volcanism would have replenished it).
volcanism: more, because interior would be hotter (Optionally, larger makes it hotter hotter.)
cratering: much less, because volcanism and/or erosion would not have erased the craters.
THE END -- TOTAL MARKS 100
AST101H1F FINAL EXAM, DECEMBER 2016 PAGE 16 OF 16

Instructions:
UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO Faculty of Arts and Science
DECEMBER 2017 EXAMINATIONS AST101H1F
Duration – 3 hours No Aids Allowed
  1. IN THIS BOOKLET: Don’t fill in anything. This booklet is for the multiple choice questions only! Make sure that all your answers are transferred to the bubble sheet.
2. ON THE BUBBLE SHEET: Fill in your last name, first initial, and student number in the spaces given and, using pencil, darkly shade in the corresponding bubbles. Then sign the card. There is no form code.
3. This is exam is all multiple choice questions, and therefore mark all answers on the bubble sheet by darkly shading the appropriate bubbles. Only answers on the bubble sheet will count for marks.
4. Make sure that your exam paper has 14 pages.
5. This exam is out of 60 marks.
    AST101H1F FINAL EXAM, DECEMBER 2017 PAGE 1 OF 14

[1 mark each] For each question, choose the MOST CORRECT answer and TRANSFER YOUR ANSWERS TO THE BUBBLE SHEET WHEN YOU ARE DONE.
1. If an object is spherical, rocky, half the size of Mercury, and located within the asteroid belt, what type of object is this and why?
(a) A planet, because it is spherical and orbits the Sun.
(b) An asteroid, because it is located in the asteroid belt.
(c) An asteroid, because it is small and rocky.
(d) A dwarf planet, because it is small and rocky.
(e) A dwarf planet, because it hasn’t cleared its neighbourhood of other objects.
2. How far away from the Sun is Neptune?
(a) A few light seconds
(b) Afewlightweeks
(c) A few light hours
(d) Afewlightdays
(e) A few light years
  3. Choose
coldest to hottest.
the correct ranking for *average* surface temperature of the terrestrial planets, from
(a) Mars, Earth, Venus, Mercury
(b) Mars, Earth, Mercury, Venus
(c) Mars, Mercury, Earth, Venus
(d) Earth, Mars, Venus, Mercury
(e) Mercury, Mars, Venus, Earth
4. Which
other planets)?
of the following planets orbit the Sun in retrograde (in the opposite direction from the
(a) Mercury
(b) Venus
(c) Earth
(d) Mars
(e) None of the above
5. If you were at the South Pole at night, where would you see Polaris, the North Star?
(a) On the Northern Horizon
(b) On the Southern Horizon
(c) Straight up
(d) About 30 degrees up in the sky in the North
(e) You wouldn’t be able to see Polaris
AST101H1F FINAL EXAM, DECEMBER 2017
PAGE 2 OF 14

6. Why do all of the planets and the Sun travel through the ecliptic plane on the sky?
(a) They are all in the ecliptic plane due to the force of gravity from the Sun.
(b) They are all in the ecliptic plane due to the conservation of angular momentum.
(c) They are all in the ecliptic plane in the solar system, due to tidal forces.
(d) They appear in the ecliptic plane because of the Earth’s axial tilt.
(e) There is no particular reason the planets and Sun all orbit in the ecliptic plane.
7. In the diagram below, where does the Moon need to be in its orbit for a Solar eclipse to be visible on Earth? Where does the Moon need to be in its orbit for a Lunar eclipse to be visible on Earth?
(a) Z for a Solar eclipse,
(b) X for a Solar eclipse,
(c) Z for a Solar eclipse,
(d) Z for a Solar eclipse,
(e) W for a Solar eclipse,
X for a Lunar Eclipse Z for a Lunar Eclipse Z for a Lunar Eclipse Y for a Lunar Eclipse X for a Lunar Eclipse
  W
   8. You see the Moon high in the sky at
(a) A First Quarter
(b) A Waning Gibbous
(c) A Waxing Crescent
(d) A Waning Crescent
(e) A Full Moon
ZX
Y
9AM. Which phase of the Moon would you observe?
AST101H1F FINAL EXAM, DECEMBER 2017
PAGE 3 OF 14

9. What observation did Galileo make that was inconsistent with the Geocentric model for the Solar System?
(a) The existence of craters on the Moon.
(b) The lack of positional changes between distant and nearby stars.
(c) The apparent retrograde motion of planets on the sky.
(d) The phases of Venus.
(e) The existence of sunspots.
10. If Mercury was moved to a position farther away from the Sun than Mars, would Mercury orbit faster or slower than Mars in this new orbit, and why?
(a) Mercury would orbit at the same speed as Mars, because orbital speed doesn’t depend on position.
(b) Mercury would orbit faster than Mars, because it is smaller than Mars.
(c) Mercury would orbit faster than Mars, because of Kepler’s 3rd law.
(d) Mercury would orbit slower than Mars, because it is smaller than Mars.
(e) Mercury would orbit slower than Mars, because of Kepler’s 3rd law.
11. Where does a comet in a highly eccentric orbit spend most of its time?
(a) Near the closest point to the Sun in its orbit.
(b) Near the farthest point to the Sun in its orbit.
(c) It will spend an equal amount of time close to the Sun and far from the Sun.
(d) It depends on the comet’s semi-major axis.
(e) Comets cannot exist in highly eccentric orbits.
12. Emily is in orbit around the Earth. Which of the following best explains why she feels weightless?
(a) There is no gravity in outer space.
(b) She is moving at a constant velocity.
(c) She is in free-fall around the Earth.
(d) The vacuum of outer space makes her feel weightless.
(e) She has no net acceleration.
13. Which
(a) Gravity from the Moon pulls the Earth’s oceans towards the Moon, creating a tidal
of the following statements best explains the ocean tides we experience on Earth?
bulge.
(b) Gravity from both the Sun and the Moon pulls on the Earth’s oceans, creating two tidal
bulges towards the Sun and the Moon.
(c) The Earth is tilted at 23.5 degrees from the ecliptic, creating uneven tidal bulges.
(d) The difference in gravitational attraction exerted by the Moon across the Earth creates
tidal bulges toward and away from the Moon.
(e) The Moon’s gravitational force is stronger on water than on rock, due to the low
relative density of water.
AST101H1F FINAL EXAM, DECEMBER 2017 PAGE 4 OF 14

14. Why is the core of the Sun extremely hot?
(a) Nuclear reactions in the Sun’s core produce heat.
(b) Chemical reactions in the Sun’s core produce heat.
(c) The core of the Sun experiences extreme pressure.
(d) The core of the Sun is part of the Sun’s convective zone.
(e) The core of the Sun contains strong magnetic fields.
15. How does the Sun produce energy?
(a) The Sun converts mass into energy through the process of nuclear fusion.
(b) The Sun converts mass into energy through the process of nuclear fission.
(c) The Sun generates energy by slowly contracting in size through gravitational
contraction.
(d) The Sun burns elements in its core through chemical reactions.
(e) The solar thermostat powers the Sun’s energy generation.
16. Gamma rays are a form of electromagnetic radiation more energetic than radio waves. What can
we say (a) (b) (c) (d) (e)
about gamma rays?
They have a higher frequency and a longer wavelength than radio waves.
They have a shorter wavelength than radio waves, but travel at a higher velocity. They travel at the speed of radio waves, but are more massive.
They have a higher frequency than radio waves, but travel at a slower velocity. They have a higher frequency and a shorter wavelength than radio waves.
17. Scientists are attempting to fuse hydrogen nuclei into helium in a laboratory as a source of energy. What is the best way to describe this project?
(a) It is a reproduction of the Sun’s core on Earth.
(b) It is a reproduction of the nuclear fission reaction powering some nuclear weapons.
(c) It is a wasted effort as it is impossible to convert an element into another.
(d) It is a dangerous attempt at developing a new type of chemical reaction.
(e) It is an attempt to use radioactive decay as a source of energy.
18. In a laboratory, two blackbodies are heated until one glows blue and the other shines red. What
can we (a) (b) (c) (d) (e)
say about the two objects?
The object glowing blue is dimmer than the one glowing red.
The two objects are at the same temperature, but made of different materials. The red object is warmer than the blue object. 
The blue object is warmer than the red object.
The two objects would glow with the same intensity.
19. Emission lines in a spectrum are due to
(a) a photon giving its energy to an electron.
(b) the decay of a heavy atom nucleus to a lighter one.
(c) the fusion of two light atomic nuclei into a heavier one.
(d) an electron moving to a higher energy level. 
(e) an electron moving to a lower energy level.
AST101H1F FINAL EXAM, DECEMBER 2017
PAGE 5 OF 14

20. Absorption features in the Sun’s spectrum are caused by
(a) (b)
(c)
(d) (e)
21. Due to appear (a) (b) (c) (d) (e)
22. Which (a)
(b) (c) (d)
(e)
the Sun’s core not being a true blackbody.
the high density and temperature of the Sun’s core preventing the emission of light at certain frequencies. 
the high density and temperature of the Sun’s photosphere preventing the emission of light at certain frequencies. 
the presence of cooler gas in the Sun’s photosphere.
fission reactions in the Sun’s photosphere.
the Doppler effect, a warm blackbody moving towards an observer at high velocity will
warmer than if it were not moving. colder than if it were not moving. 
at the same temperature as if it were not moving.
to have more spectral lines than if it were not moving. to have fewer spectral lines than if it were not moving.
sequence best describes the process by which matter in the Universe is recycled? Supernova explosion → expanding remnant → cloud collapse → new stars → supernova explosion.
Big bang → formation of galaxies → cloud collapse → new stars → big bang. Big bang → cloud collapse → formation of galaxies → new stars → big bang. Supernova explosion → expanding remnant → formation of planets → nebular explosion → supernova explosion.
Big bang → expanding remnant → cloud collapse → new stars → big bang.
23. A rotating cloud will rotate faster as it collapses into a disk due to
(a) conservation of energy.
(b) conservation of angular momentum.
(c) conservation of mass.
(d) Kepler’s second law.
(e) Newton’s third law.
24. Which
(a) It is a leftover planetesimal formed in the inner region of the frost line.
(b) It is a leftover planetesimal formed in the outer region of the frost line.
(c) It is a small icy body that leaves a glowing trail the moment it enters the Earth’s
atmosphere.
(d) It is a small rocky body that leaves a glowing trail the moment it enters the Earth’s
atmosphere.
(e) It is a rocky body that resides in the belt of debris between Mars and Jupiter.
of the following statements best describes a comet?
AST101H1F FINAL EXAM, DECEMBER 2017 PAGE 6 OF 14

25. A rotating spherical gas cloud will collapse into a flat rotating disk because:
(a) Gravity is the strongest force in the Universe.
(b) Particles not moving in circular orbits collide, and their motions cancel out.
(c) For a blackbody, angular momentum is always conserved.
(d) When a solar system forms, the hottest part is always at the centre.
(e) Rocks and ice, which reside inside the frost line, form most easily in a disk rather than a
sphere.
26. Which
planet formation?
of the following features of another solar system would contradict the nebular theory of
(a) Most of the planetary orbits are circular.
(b) The planets spin and orbit in the same direction.
(c) The planets all orbit their star clockwise.
(d) All the planetary orbits are highly elliptical and not in the same plane.
(e) There are no planets in the solar system.
27. What is the leading theory for the formation of Earth's Moon?
(a) The Moon formed out of the debris of a collision between Earth and a Mars sized planet
during the formation of the solar system.
(b) The Moon formed out of the debris of a collision with a Venus during the formation of
the solar system.
(c) The Moon was captured by Earth's gravitational field during the formation of the solar
system.
(d) The Moon was created by a previous, but now extinct, civilization.
(e) The Moon and Earth formed together out of the same part of the proto-planetary disk.
28. Measurement of a certain element in a sample rock shows that it contains one-fourth (1/4) of the original amount. If the half-life of the original element is 25 million years how old is the rock?
(a) 25÷4 million years
(b) 25 million years
(c) 50 million years
(d) 75 million years
(e) 100 million years
29. Why are there more craters on the Moon than the Earth?
(a) The Earth is more geologically active than the Moon.
(b) The Moon is older than the Earth and so it had more opportunities for impacts.
(c) The Moon is made of very different material from the Earth.
(d) The Earth has a stronger crust than the Moon.
(e) The Moon is less dense than the Earth.
AST101H1F FINAL EXAM, DECEMBER 2017 PAGE 7 OF 14

30. The cores of terrestrial planets are composed of mostly heavy elements (e.g. nickel, iron) while their crusts are made of lighter elements (e.g. silicon, oxygen). Why is this?
(a) The light elements fell onto the surface later in the formation of the planets.
(b) Heavy elements decay into lighter elements on the surface of the planets.
(c) Heavy element tended to sink to the centres of the planets early in their formation.
(d) The cores contain radioactive elements which decay into heavy elements.
(e) Convection has caused heavier elements to sink faster than light elements.
31. Which
(a) Earth
of these planets displays the strongest greenhouse effect?
(b) Mars
(c) Mercury
(d) Venus
(e) Neptune
32. Which
(a) The Moon is cooler than the core of the Earth.
(b) All geological processes have virtually stopped on the Moon.
(c) There are some signs of past geological activity on the Moon.
(d) The lunar maria formed before the period of heavy bombardment.
(e) There are recent craters on the Moon.
of the following statement is FALSE about the Moon?
33. Which
(a) Minerals combine with carbon to make rocks on the ocean floor.
(b) CO2 is heated and escapes the atmosphere, cooling the Earth's surface.
(c) Continental drift carries rock containing carbon down into the Earth’s mantle.
(d) Atmospheric CO2 dissolves in rainwater.
(e) Rain erodes minerals that flow into ocean.
34. The atmosphere of Mars is 95% CO2. Given that CO2 is a powerful greenhouse gas, why is Mars so cold?
(a) Mars is too far from the Sun for the greenhouse effect to work.
(b) Mars is rotating too fast for the greenhouse effect to work.
(c) The greenhouse effect also needs nitrogen, and the atmosphere of Mars does not
contain any nitrogen.
(d) There is too much CO2 on Mars for the greenhouse effect to work.
(e) There is not enough CO2 on Mars for the greenhouse effect to work.
35. Why does Mercury have far more craters than Earth or Venus?
(a) Mercury is located closer to the Sun and so is more likely to collide with asteroids.
(b) Mercury has a smaller core and therefore has a less resilient surface.
(c) Mercury is not geologically active and has no atmosphere to erode craters.
(d) Mercury formed well before Earth or Venus, and so has had a longer time to build up
craters on its surface.
(e) Mercury does not have a magnetic field to shield it from asteroids.
occurrence is NOT part of Earth's carbon cycle?
AST101H1F FINAL EXAM, DECEMBER 2017 PAGE 8 OF 14

36. The Curiosity rover on Mars is not operated by using a joystick from the Earth, because the communication delay time is too long, that is, the time it takes for a light signal to make a round-trip between the Earth and Mars. Earth is 8 light minutes from the Sun. Mars orbits at about 12 light minutes from the Sun. What is the lowest possible communication delay time between the Earth and Mars?
(a) 4 minutes
(b) 8 minutes
(c) 12 minutes
(d) 24 minutes
(e) 40 minutes
 37. Which
(a) We see dried river beds on Mars.
(b) We see erupting volcanoes and lava flows on Mars.
(c) We see earthquakes occurring on Mars.
(d) We see the carbon cycle occurring on Mars.
(e) We see ice caps on Mars.
38. A hydrogen atom (H) consists of an electron and a proton. Deuterium (D) is a different form of hydrogen with a nucleus containing a neutron and a proton. Which of the following statements
is NOT
true?
Earth has much more H than D in its oceans.
Deuterium is stable and won’t decay radioactively. 
Compared to deuterium, hydrogen is lighter and less likely to escape into space. A planet with a stronger gravitational field is more likely to trap its H and D. Water molecules with a deuterium atom instead of hydrogen would be heavier.
of the following statements is evidence for geological activity on Mars:
 (a) (b) (c) (d) (e)
 39. Saturn’s rings have what looks like extremely dark bands. What are they?
 (a) Regions of dark (low reflectivity) material.
(b) Gaps between the rings caused by collisions with other moons in orbit around Saturn.
(c) Shadows cast by other moons in orbit around Saturn.
(d) Gaps between rings caused by the gravitational pull of other moons in orbit around
Saturn.
(e) Slightly warmer regions of the ring, where the ices have evaporated to form gas.
AST101H1F FINAL EXAM, DECEMBER 2017 PAGE 9 OF 14

40. Which of the following is the main reason that Pluto is no longer considered a planet? (a) It is much less massive compared to other planets.
(b) Its moon Charon is about half of its size.
(c) Pluto’s orbit is highly eccentric.
(d) Pluto shares its orbital neighbourhood with other icy Kuiper Belt Objects. (e) The dwarf planet Eris is more massive than Pluto.
41. A Jovian planet has three moons of similar size, named Eee, Iye, and Re. The innermost of the three, Eee, has large portions of un-cratered surface, while Re and Iye are heavily cratered. This is most likely because:
(a) Eee was formed much later than Re and Iye.
(b) Eee is in an orbital resonance with another moon, causing an elliptical orbit and tidal
heating.
(c) Eee is orbiting closer to the sun, so it is warmer than the others, producing geological
activity.
(d) Eee was protected from craters by something.
(e) Eee was origionally a dwarf planet, but was captured by the larger Jovian planet.
42. When does a comet have its longest tail and largest coma?
(a) When it is moving most slowly. 
(b) When it makes its closest approach to the Earth.
(c) When it crosses the ecliptic plane. 
(d) When it is at its farthest point from the Sun in its elliptical orbit.
(e) When it is at its nearest point to the Sun in its elliptical orbit.
43. Jovian
(a) larger orbital semi major axes.
(b) larger orbital periods.
(c) higher surface temperatures.
(d) slower rotation rates.
(e) higher escape speeds.
planets have higher masses than terrestrial planets, so they should also have:
44. An exoplanet is orbited by a number of moons. Which of the following moons is likely to experience the weakest tidal force due to the planet?
(a) A large moon in an elliptical orbit with a small semi-major axis
(b) A small moon in an elliptical orbit with a small semi-major axis
(c) A large moon in an elliptical orbit with a large semi-major axis 
(d) A small moon in an elliptical orbit with a large semi-major axis
(e) A small moon in a perfectly circular orbit
AST101H1F FINAL EXAM, DECEMBER 2017
PAGE 10 OF 14

45. Which of the following describes the common constituent(s) of the core of all Jovian planets? (a) Ammonia
(b) Liquidhelium
(c) Rock and metals (d) Metallichydrogen (e) Gaseous hydrogen
46. For the Martian craters labelled in the figure below, which of the following statements about their relative age is correct?
(a) Crater A is younger than Crater B, Crater C is older than Crater D.
(b) Crater A is younger than Crater B, Crater B is younger than Crater D.
(c) Crater A is older than Crater B, Crater B is older than Crater D. 
(d) Crater A is older than Crater B, Crater C is younger than Crater D.
(e) Craters A, B, C are all older than Crater D.
C
   B
A
  47. A small meteorite is found that is made mainly from volcanic rock. Where did it likely come from?
(a) The crust or mantle of a planet or large asteroid
(b) The metallic core of a planet or dwarf planet which was destroyed in a major collision
(c) The surface of a small comet
(d) It formed that way in the disk during planet formation.
(e) Either (a) or (d)
AST101H1F FINAL EXAM, DECEMBER 2017 PAGE 11 OF 14
D

48. Starting from the diagram below, how many orbits will Io have to complete before it feels the strongest gravitational pull from Europa?
(a) half an orbit
(b) oneorbit
(c) one and a half orbits
(d) two orbits
(e) four orbits
 49. Which
orbiting particles, rather than a solid sheet of materials?
of the following is the strongest proof of Saturn’s rings being made of independently
(a) In a face-on image, the rings of Saturn appear to be a disk surrounding Saturn.
(b) Shepard moons have been observed around Saturn’s rings. 
(c) Cassini revealed large individual particles in Saturn’s rings.
(d) Meteoroids have been observed to pass through the rings.
(e) The rings have different orbital periods.
50. Exoplanets are usually very hard to see directly because:
(a) They emit mainly at ultraviolet wavelengths.
(b) They do not reflect the light from their parent stars.
(c) They are circling their parent stars with very long orbital periods.
(d) They are much fainter than their parent stars.
(e) They are located inside the frost line.
51. The light curve of a transiting exoplanet can often show two dips per orbit. This is usually because:
(a) The exoplanet undergoes retrograde motion for part of its orbit.
(b) The exoplanet has a moon.
(c) The exoplanet transits its star, while the star eclipses the exoplanet.
(d) There are two exoplanets orbiting the same star.
(e) The exoplanet is a hot Jupiter.
AST101H1F FINAL EXAM, DECEMBER 2017
PAGE 12 OF 14

52. If an exoplanet does not produce a transit, this is most likely because:
(a) The exoplanet is in a face-on orbit.
(b) The exoplanet is too close to its parent star.
(c) The exoplanet is too hot.
(d) The exoplanet is too cold.
(e) The exoplanet is too big.
53. How do astronomers usually determine the masses of exoplanets?
(a) Using the transit method, from the depth of the eclipse.
(b) Using the transit method, from the duration of the eclipse.
(c) Using the Doppler method, from the orbital period.
(d) Using the Doppler method, from the radial velocity.
(e) Using the combination of the transit method and the Doppler method.
54. How do astronomers usually determine the sizes of exoplanets?
(a) Using the transit method, from the depth of the eclipse.
(b) Using the transit method, from the duration of the eclipse.
(c) Using the Doppler method, from the orbital period.
(d) Using the Doppler method, from the radial velocity.
(e) Using the combination of the transit method and the Doppler method.
55. What caused the runaway Greenhouse Effect on Venus?
(a) Heat is released in the interior from tidal forces from the Sun.
(b) Differentiation is still occurring in the core releasing heat.
(c) Venus has longer days to warm the surface.
(d) Venus' high surface temperature evaporated all surface water.
(e) Venus' high surface temperature means it has a larger concentration of CO2 in its
atmosphere.
56. How do astronomers usually determine the densities of exoplanets?
(a) Using the transit method, from the depth of the eclipse.
(b) Using the transit method, from the duration of the eclipse.
(c) Using the Doppler method, from the orbital period.
(d) Using the Doppler method, from the radial velocity.
(e) Using the combination of the transit method and the Doppler method.
57. Which exoplanets?
of the following is a FALSE statement about the Doppler method for finding
(a) The heavier the star, the smaller the wobble we see in a telescope.
(b) The Doppler method works best for edge-on orbits.
(c) The Doppler method works best for exoplanets orbiting close to their stars.
(d) Using the Doppler method, we can only study one star at a time.
(e) The Doppler method cannot tell us an exoplanet’s temperature or its age.
AST101H1F FINAL EXAM, DECEMBER 2017 PAGE 13 OF 14

58. Why do we see so many “hot Jupiters” around other stars, while we don’t see any hot Jupiters in our own solar system?
(a) Our solar system has a frost line but other solar systems do not.
(b) Exoplanet searches are strongly biased toward finding hot Jupiters.
(c) Our Sun is too cool to heat up Jupiter.
(d) The hot Jupiters in our solar system have migrated into outer space.
(e) Other solar systems most likely did not form according to the nebular theory.
59. What is our current best understanding of the presence of life beyond the Earth?
(a) We have no evidence of life beyond the Earth.
(b) There is possible evidence that life is currently present on Mars.
(c) There is possible evidence that life used to be present on Mars.
(d) There is possible evidence that life used to be present on Titan.
(e) We have identified likely life on several exoplanets.
60. If the Sun were to suddenly double in temperature, what happens to its habitable zone?
(a) The habitable zone would disappear.
(b) The habitable zone would move closer to the Sun.
(c) The habitable zone would move farther from the Sun.
(d) The habitable zone would not change.
(e) The Sun does not currently have a habitable zone.
THE END -- TOTAL MARKS = 60 TOTAL PAGES = 14
AST101H1F FINAL EXAM, DECEMBER 2017 PAGE 14 OF 14

Instructions:
UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO Faculty of Arts and Science
DECEMBER 2017 EXAMINATIONS AST101H1F
Duration – 3 hours No Aids Allowed
  1. IN THIS BOOKLET: Don’t fill in anything. This booklet is for the multiple choice questions only! Make sure that all your answers are transferred to the bubble sheet.
2. ON THE BUBBLE SHEET: Fill in your last name, first initial, and student number in the spaces given and, using pencil, darkly shade in the corresponding bubbles. Then sign the card. There is no form code.
3. This is exam is all multiple choice questions, and therefore mark all answers on the bubble sheet by darkly shading the appropriate bubbles. Only answers on the bubble sheet will count for marks.
4. Make sure that your exam paper has 14 pages.
5. This exam is out of 60 marks.
    AST101H1F FINAL EXAM, DECEMBER 2017 PAGE 1 OF 14

[1 mark each] For each question, choose the MOST CORRECT answer and TRANSFER YOUR ANSWERS TO THE BUBBLE SHEET WHEN YOU ARE DONE.
1. If an object is spherical, rocky, half the size of Mercury, and located within the asteroid belt, what type of object is this and why?
(a) A planet, because it is spherical and orbits the Sun.
(b) An asteroid, because it is located in the asteroid belt.
(c) An asteroid, because it is small and rocky.
(d) A dwarf planet, because it is small and rocky.
(e) A dwarf planet, because it hasn’t cleared its neighbourhood of other objects.
2. How far away from the Sun is Neptune?
(a) A few light seconds
(b) Afewlightweeks
(c) A few light hours
(d) Afewlightdays
(e) A few light years
3. Choose the correct ranking for *average* surface temperature of the terrestrial planets, from coldest to hottest.
(a) Mars, Earth, Venus, Mercury
(b) Mars, Earth, Mercury, Venus
(c) Mars, Mercury, Earth, Venus
(d) Earth, Mars, Venus, Mercury
(e) Mercury, Mars, Venus, Earth
  4. Which
other planets)?
of the following planets orbit the Sun in retrograde (in the opposite direction from the
(a) Mercury
(b) Venus
(c) Earth
(d) Mars
(e) None of the above
5. If you were at the South Pole at night, where would you see Polaris, the North Star?
(a) On the Northern Horizon
(b) On the Southern Horizon
(c) Straight up
(d) About 30 degrees up in the sky in the North
(e) You wouldn’t be able to see Polaris
AST101H1F FINAL EXAM, DECEMBER 2017
PAGE 2 OF 14

6. Why do all of the planets and the Sun travel through the ecliptic plane on the sky?
(a) They are all in the ecliptic plane due to the force of gravity from the Sun.
(b) They are all in the ecliptic plane due to the conservation of angular momentum.
(c) They are all in the ecliptic plane in the solar system, due to tidal forces.
(d) They appear in the ecliptic plane because of the Earth’s axial tilt.
(e) There is no particular reason the planets and Sun all orbit in the ecliptic plane.
7. In the diagram below, where does the Moon need to be in its orbit for a Solar eclipse to be visible on Earth? Where does the Moon need to be in its orbit for a Lunar eclipse to be visible on Earth?
(a) Z for a Solar eclipse,
(b) X for a Solar eclipse,
(c) Z for a Solar eclipse,
(d) Z for a Solar eclipse,
(e) W for a Solar eclipse,
X for a Lunar Eclipse
Z for a Lunar Eclipse Z for a Lunar Eclipse Y for a Lunar Eclipse X for a Lunar Eclipse
  W
   8. You see the Moon high in the sky at
(a) A First Quarter
(b) A Waning Gibbous
(c) A Waxing Crescent
(d) A Waning Crescent
(e) A Full Moon
ZX
Y
9AM. Which phase of the Moon would you observe?
AST101H1F FINAL EXAM, DECEMBER 2017
PAGE 3 OF 14

9. What observation did Galileo make that was inconsistent with the Geocentric model for the Solar System?
(a) The existence of craters on the Moon.
(b) The lack of positional changes between distant and nearby stars.
(c) The apparent retrograde motion of planets on the sky.
(d) The phases of Venus.
(e) The existence of sunspots.
10. If Mercury was moved to a position farther away from the Sun than Mars, would Mercury orbit faster or slower than Mars in this new orbit, and why?
(a) Mercury would orbit at the same speed as Mars, because orbital speed doesn’t depend on position.
(b) Mercury would orbit faster than Mars, because it is smaller than Mars.
(c) Mercury would orbit faster than Mars, because of Kepler’s 3rd law.
(d) Mercury would orbit slower than Mars, because it is smaller than Mars.
(e) Mercury would orbit slower than Mars, because of Kepler’s 3rd law.
11. Where does a comet in a highly eccentric orbit spend most of its time?
(a) Near the closest point to the Sun in its orbit.
(b) Near the farthest point to the Sun in its orbit.
(c) It will spend an equal amount of time close to the Sun and far from the Sun.
(d) It depends on the comet’s semi-major axis.
(e) Comets cannot exist in highly eccentric orbits.
12. Emily is in orbit around the Earth. Which of the following best explains why she feels weightless?
(a) There is no gravity in outer space.
(b) She is moving at a constant velocity.
(c) She is in free-fall around the Earth.
(d) The vacuum of outer space makes her feel weightless.
(e) She has no net acceleration.
13. Which
(a) Gravity from the Moon pulls the Earth’s oceans towards the Moon, creating a tidal
of the following statements best explains the ocean tides we experience on Earth?
bulge.
(b) Gravity from both the Sun and the Moon pulls on the Earth’s oceans, creating two tidal
bulges towards the Sun and the Moon.
(c) The Earth is tilted at 23.5 degrees from the ecliptic, creating uneven tidal bulges.
(d) The difference in gravitational attraction exerted by the Moon across the Earth
creates tidal bulges toward and away from the Moon.
(e) The Moon’s gravitational force is stronger on water than on rock, due to the low relative density of water.
AST101H1F FINAL EXAM, DECEMBER 2017 PAGE 4 OF 14

14. Why is the core of the Sun extremely hot?
(a) Nuclear reactions in the Sun’s core produce heat.
(b) Chemical reactions in the Sun’s core produce heat.
(c) The core of the Sun experiences extreme pressure.
(d) The core of the Sun is part of the Sun’s convective zone.
(e) The core of the Sun contains strong magnetic fields.
15. How does the Sun produce energy?
(a) The Sun converts mass into energy through the process of nuclear fusion.
(b) The Sun converts mass into energy through the process of nuclear fission.
(c) The Sun generates energy by slowly contracting in size through gravitational
contraction.
(d) The Sun burns elements in its core through chemical reactions.
(e) The solar thermostat powers the Sun’s energy generation.
16. Gamma rays are a form of electromagnetic radiation more energetic than radio waves. What can
we say (a) (b) (c) (d) (e)
about gamma rays?
They have a higher frequency and a longer wavelength than radio waves.
They have a shorter wavelength than radio waves, but travel at a higher velocity. They travel at the speed of radio waves, but are more massive.
They have a higher frequency than radio waves, but travel at a slower velocity. They have a higher frequency and a shorter wavelength than radio waves.
17. Scientists are attempting to fuse hydrogen nuclei into helium in a laboratory as a source of energy. What is the best way to describe this project?
(a) It is a reproduction of the Sun’s core on Earth.
(b) It is a reproduction of the nuclear fission reaction powering some nuclear weapons.
(c) It is a wasted effort as it is impossible to convert an element into another.
(d) It is a dangerous attempt at developing a new type of chemical reaction.
(e) It is an attempt to use radioactive decay as a source of energy.
18. In a laboratory, two blackbodies are heated until one glows blue and the other shines red. What
can we (a) (b) (c) (d) (e)
say about the two objects?
The object glowing blue is dimmer than the one glowing red.
The two objects are at the same temperature, but made of different materials. The red object is warmer than the blue object. 
The blue object is warmer than the red object.
The two objects would glow with the same intensity.
19. Emission lines in a spectrum are due to
(a) a photon giving its energy to an electron.
(b) the decay of a heavy atom nucleus to a lighter one.
(c) the fusion of two light atomic nuclei into a heavier one.
(d) an electron moving to a higher energy level. 
(e) an electron moving to a lower energy level.
AST101H1F FINAL EXAM, DECEMBER 2017
PAGE 5 OF 14

20. Absorption features in the Sun’s spectrum are caused by
(a) (b)
(c)
(d) (e)
21. Due to appear (a) (b) (c) (d) (e)
22. Which (a)
(b) (c) (d)
(e)
the Sun’s core not being a true blackbody.
the high density and temperature of the Sun’s core preventing the emission of light at certain frequencies. 
the high density and temperature of the Sun’s photosphere preventing the emission of light at certain frequencies. 
the presence of cooler gas in the Sun’s photosphere.
fission reactions in the Sun’s photosphere.
the Doppler effect, a warm blackbody moving towards an observer at high velocity will
warmer than if it were not moving.
colder than if it were not moving. 
at the same temperature as if it were not moving.
to have more spectral lines than if it were not moving. to have fewer spectral lines than if it were not moving.
sequence best describes the process by which matter in the Universe is recycled?
Supernova explosion → expanding remnant → cloud collapse → new stars → supernova explosion.
Big bang → formation of galaxies → cloud collapse → new stars → big bang. Big bang → cloud collapse → formation of galaxies → new stars → big bang. Supernova explosion → expanding remnant → formation of planets → nebular explosion → supernova explosion.
Big bang → expanding remnant → cloud collapse → new stars → big bang.
23. A rotating cloud will rotate faster as it collapses into a disk due to
(a) conservation of energy.
(b) conservation of angular momentum.
(c) conservation of mass.
(d) Kepler’s second law.
(e) Newton’s third law.
24. Which
(a) It is a leftover planetesimal formed in the inner region of the frost line.
(b) It is a leftover planetesimal formed in the outer region of the frost line.
(c) It is a small icy body that leaves a glowing trail the moment it enters the Earth’s
atmosphere.
(d) It is a small rocky body that leaves a glowing trail the moment it enters the Earth’s
atmosphere.
(e) It is a rocky body that resides in the belt of debris between Mars and Jupiter.
of the following statements best describes a comet?
AST101H1F FINAL EXAM, DECEMBER 2017 PAGE 6 OF 14

25. A rotating spherical gas cloud will collapse into a flat rotating disk because:
(a) Gravity is the strongest force in the Universe.
(b) Particles not moving in circular orbits collide, and their motions cancel out.
(c) For a blackbody, angular momentum is always conserved.
(d) When a solar system forms, the hottest part is always at the centre.
(e) Rocks and ice, which reside inside the frost line, form most easily in a disk rather than a
sphere.
26. Which
planet formation?
of the following features of another solar system would contradict the nebular theory of
(a) Most of the planetary orbits are circular.
(b) The planets spin and orbit in the same direction.
(c) The planets all orbit their star clockwise.
(d) All the planetary orbits are highly elliptical and not in the same plane.
(e) There are no planets in the solar system.
27. What is the leading theory for the formation of Earth's Moon?
(a) The Moon formed out of the debris of a collision between Earth and a Mars sized
planet during the formation of the solar system.
(b) The Moon formed out of the debris of a collision with a Venus during the formation of the solar system.
(c) The Moon was captured by Earth's gravitational field during the formation of the solar system.
(d) The Moon was created by a previous, but now extinct, civilization.
(e) The Moon and Earth formed together out of the same part of the proto-planetary disk.
28. Measurement of a certain element in a sample rock shows that it contains one-fourth (1/4) of the original amount. If the half-life of the original element is 25 million years how old is the rock?
(a) 25÷4 million years
(b) 25 million years
(c) 50 million years
(d) 75 million years
(e) 100 million years
29. Why are there more craters on the Moon than the Earth?
(a) The Earth is more geologically active than the Moon.
(b) The Moon is older than the Earth and so it had more opportunities for impacts.
(c) The Moon is made of very different material from the Earth.
(d) The Earth has a stronger crust than the Moon.
(e) The Moon is less dense than the Earth.
AST101H1F FINAL EXAM, DECEMBER 2017 PAGE 7 OF 14

30. The cores of terrestrial planets are composed of mostly heavy elements (e.g. nickel, iron) while their crusts are made of lighter elements (e.g. silicon, oxygen). Why is this?
(a) The light elements fell onto the surface later in the formation of the planets.
(b) Heavy elements decay into lighter elements on the surface of the planets.
(c) Heavy element tended to sink to the centres of the planets early in their formation.
(d) The cores contain radioactive elements which decay into heavy elements.
(e) Convection has caused heavier elements to sink faster than light elements.
31. Which
(a) Earth
of these planets displays the strongest greenhouse effect?
(b) Mars
(c) Mercury
(d) Venus
(e) Neptune
32. Which
(a) The Moon is cooler than the core of the Earth.
(b) All geological processes have virtually stopped on the Moon.
(c) There are some signs of past geological activity on the Moon.
(d) The lunar maria formed before the period of heavy bombardment.
(e) There are recent craters on the Moon.
of the following statement is FALSE about the Moon?
33. Which
(a) Minerals combine with carbon to make rocks on the ocean floor.
(b) CO2 is heated and escapes the atmosphere, cooling the Earth's surface.
(c) Continental drift carries rock containing carbon down into the Earth’s mantle.
(d) Atmospheric CO2 dissolves in rainwater.
(e) Rain erodes minerals that flow into ocean.
34. The atmosphere of Mars is 95% CO2. Given that CO2 is a powerful greenhouse gas, why is Mars so cold?
(a) Mars is too far from the Sun for the greenhouse effect to work.
(b) Mars is rotating too fast for the greenhouse effect to work.
(c) The greenhouse effect also needs nitrogen, and the atmosphere of Mars does not
contain any nitrogen.
(d) There is too much CO2 on Mars for the greenhouse effect to work.
(e) There is not enough CO2 on Mars for the greenhouse effect to work.
35. Why does Mercury have far more craters than Earth or Venus?
(a) Mercury is located closer to the Sun and so is more likely to collide with asteroids.
(b) Mercury has a smaller core and therefore has a less resilient surface.
(c) Mercury is not geologically active and has no atmosphere to erode craters.
(d) Mercury formed well before Earth or Venus, and so has had a longer time to build up
craters on its surface.
(e) Mercury does not have a magnetic field to shield it from asteroids.
occurrence is NOT part of Earth's carbon cycle?
AST101H1F FINAL EXAM, DECEMBER 2017 PAGE 8 OF 14

36. The Curiosity rover on Mars is not operated by using a joystick from the Earth, because the communication delay time is too long, that is, the time it takes for a light signal to make a round-trip between the Earth and Mars. Earth is 8 light minutes from the Sun. Mars orbits at about 12 light minutes from the Sun. What is the lowest possible communication delay time between the Earth and Mars?
(a) 4 minutes
(b) 8 minutes
(c) 12 minutes
(d) 24 minutes
(e) 40 minutes
 37. Which
(a) We see dried river beds on Mars.
(b) We see erupting volcanoes and lava flows on Mars.
(c) We see earthquakes occurring on Mars.
(d) We see the carbon cycle occurring on Mars.
(e) We see ice caps on Mars.
38. A hydrogen atom (H) consists of an electron and a proton. Deuterium (D) is a different form of hydrogen with a nucleus containing a neutron and a proton. Which of the following statements
is NOT
true?
Earth has much more H than D in its oceans.
Deuterium is stable and won’t decay radioactively. 
Compared to deuterium, hydrogen is lighter and less likely to escape into space. A planet with a stronger gravitational field is more likely to trap its H and D.
Water molecules with a deuterium atom instead of hydrogen would be heavier.
of the following statements is evidence for geological activity on Mars:
 (a) (b) (c) (d) (e)
 39. Saturn’s rings have what looks like extremely dark bands. What are they?
 (a) Regions of dark (low reflectivity) material.
(b) Gaps between the rings caused by collisions with other moons in orbit around Saturn.
(c) Shadows cast by other moons in orbit around Saturn.
(d) Gaps between rings caused by the gravitational pull of other moons in orbit
around Saturn.
(e) Slightly warmer regions of the ring, where the ices have evaporated to form gas.
AST101H1F FINAL EXAM, DECEMBER 2017 PAGE 9 OF 14

40. Which of the following is the main reason that Pluto is no longer considered a planet? (a) It is much less massive compared to other planets.
(b) Its moon Charon is about half of its size.
(c) Pluto’s orbit is highly eccentric.
(d) Pluto shares its orbital neighbourhood with other icy Kuiper Belt Objects. (e) The dwarf planet Eris is more massive than Pluto.
41. A Jovian planet has three moons of similar size, named Eee, Iye, and Re. The innermost of the three, Eee, has large portions of un-cratered surface, while Re and Iye are heavily cratered. This is most likely because:
(a) Eee was formed much later than Re and Iye.
(b) Eee is in an orbital resonance with another moon, causing an elliptical orbit and
tidal heating.
(c) Eee is orbiting closer to the sun, so it is warmer than the others, producing geological activity.
(d) Eee was protected from craters by something.
(e) Eee was originally a dwarf planet, but was captured by the larger Jovian planet.
42. When does a comet have its longest tail and largest coma?
(a) When it is moving most slowly. 
(b) When it makes its closest approach to the Earth.
(c) When it crosses the ecliptic plane. 
(d) When it is at its farthest point from the Sun in its elliptical orbit.
(e) When it is at its nearest point to the Sun in its elliptical orbit.
43. Jovian
(a) larger orbital semi major axes.
(b) larger orbital periods.
(c) higher surface temperatures.
(d) slower rotation rates.
(e) higher escape speeds.
planets have higher masses than terrestrial planets, so they should also have:
44. An exoplanet is orbited by a number of moons. Which of the following moons is likely to experience the weakest tidal force due to the planet?
(a) A large moon in an elliptical orbit with a small semi-major axis
(b) A small moon in an elliptical orbit with a small semi-major axis
(c) A large moon in an elliptical orbit with a large semi-major axis 
(d) A small moon in an elliptical orbit with a large semi-major axis
(e) A small moon in a perfectly circular orbit
45. Which
(a) Ammonia
(b) Liquidhelium
(c) Rock and metals
(d) Metallichydrogen
(e) Gaseous hydrogen
of the following describes the common constituent(s) of the core of all Jovian planets?
AST101H1F FINAL EXAM, DECEMBER 2017
PAGE 10 OF 14

46. For the Martian craters labelled in the figure below, which of the following statements about their relative age is correct?
(a) Crater A is younger than Crater B, Crater C is older than Crater D.
(b) Crater A is younger than Crater B, Crater B is younger than Crater D.
(c) Crater A is older than Crater B, Crater B is older than Crater D. 
(d) Crater A is older than Crater B, Crater C is younger than Crater D.
(e) Craters A, B, C are all older than Crater D.
C
   B
A
  47. A small meteorite is found that is made mainly from volcanic rock. Where did it likely come from?
(a) The crust or mantle of a planet or large asteroid
(b) The metallic core of a planet or dwarf planet which was destroyed in a major collision
(c) The surface of a small comet
(d) It formed that way in the disk during planet formation.
(e) Either (a) or (d)
AST101H1F FINAL EXAM, DECEMBER 2017 PAGE 11 OF 14
D

48. Starting from the diagram below, how many orbits will Io have to complete before it feels the strongest gravitational pull from Europa?
(a) half an orbit
(b) oneorbit
(c) one and a half orbits
(d) two orbits
(e) four orbits
 49. Which
orbiting particles, rather than a solid sheet of materials?
of the following is the strongest proof of Saturn’s rings being made of independently
(a) In a face-on image, the rings of Saturn appear to be a disk surrounding Saturn.
(b) Shepard moons have been observed around Saturn’s rings. 
(c) Cassini revealed large individual particles in Saturn’s rings.
(d) Meteoroids have been observed to pass through the rings.
(e) The rings have different orbital periods.
50. Exoplanets are usually very hard to see directly because:
(a) They emit mainly at ultraviolet wavelengths.
(b) They do not reflect the light from their parent stars.
(c) They are circling their parent stars with very long orbital periods.
(d) They are much fainter than their parent stars.
(e) They are located inside the frost line.
51. The light curve of a transiting exoplanet can often show two dips per orbit. This is usually because:
(a) The exoplanet undergoes retrograde motion for part of its orbit.
(b) The exoplanet has a moon.
(c) The exoplanet transits its star, while the star eclipses the exoplanet.
(d) There are two exoplanets orbiting the same star.
(e) The exoplanet is a hot Jupiter.
AST101H1F FINAL EXAM, DECEMBER 2017
PAGE 12 OF 14

52. If an exoplanet does not produce a transit, this is most likely because:
(a) The exoplanet is in a face-on orbit.
(b) The exoplanet is too close to its parent star.
(c) The exoplanet is too hot.
(d) The exoplanet is too cold.
(e) The exoplanet is too big.
53. How do astronomers usually determine the masses of exoplanets?
(a) Using the transit method, from the depth of the eclipse.
(b) Using the transit method, from the duration of the eclipse.
(c) Using the Doppler method, from the orbital period.
(d) Using the Doppler method, from the radial velocity.
(e) Using the combination of the transit method and the Doppler method.
54. How do astronomers usually determine the sizes of exoplanets?
(a) Using the transit method, from the depth of the eclipse.
(b) Using the transit method, from the duration of the eclipse.
(c) Using the Doppler method, from the orbital period.
(d) Using the Doppler method, from the radial velocity.
(e) Using the combination of the transit method and the Doppler method.
55. What caused the runaway Greenhouse Effect on Venus?
(a) Heat is released in the interior from tidal forces from the Sun.
(b) Differentiation is still occurring in the core releasing heat.
(c) Venus has longer days to warm the surface.
(d) Venus'highsurfacetemperatureevaporatedallsurfacewater.
(e) Venus' high surface temperature means it has a larger concentration of CO2 in its
atmosphere.
56. How do astronomers usually determine the densities of exoplanets?
(a) Using the transit method, from the depth of the eclipse.
(b) Using the transit method, from the duration of the eclipse.
(c) Using the Doppler method, from the orbital period.
(d) Using the Doppler method, from the radial velocity.
(e) Using the combination of the transit method and the Doppler method.
57. Which exoplanets?
of the following is a FALSE statement about the Doppler method for finding
(a) The heavier the star, the smaller the wobble we see in a telescope.
(b) The Doppler method works best for edge-on orbits.
(c) The Doppler method works best for exoplanets orbiting close to their stars.
(d) Using the Doppler method, we can only study one star at a time.
(e) The Doppler method cannot tell us an exoplanet’s temperature or its age.
AST101H1F FINAL EXAM, DECEMBER 2017 PAGE 13 OF 14

58. Why do we see so many “hot Jupiters” around other stars, while we don’t see any hot Jupiters in our own solar system?
(a) Our solar system has a frost line but other solar systems do not.
(b) Exoplanet searches are strongly biased toward finding hot Jupiters.
(c) Our Sun is too cool to heat up Jupiter.
(d) The hot Jupiters in our solar system have migrated into outer space.
(e) Other solar systems most likely did not form according to the nebular theory.
59. What is our current best understanding of the presence of life beyond the Earth?
(a) We have no evidence of life beyond the Earth.
(b) There is possible evidence that life is currently present on Mars.
(c) There is possible evidence that life used to be present on Mars.
(d) There is possible evidence that life used to be present on Titan.
(e) We have identified likely life on several exoplanets.
60. If the Sun were to suddenly double in temperature, what happens to its habitable zone?
(a) The habitable zone would disappear.
(b) The habitable zone would move closer to the Sun.
(c) The habitable zone would move farther from the Sun.
(d) The habitable zone would not change.
(e) The Sun does not currently have a habitable zone.
THE END -- TOTAL MARKS = 60 TOTAL PAGES = 14
AST101H1F FINAL EXAM, DECEMBER 2017 PAGE 14 OF 14

 9/21/2018 Assignment 1 (For Marks)
Assignment 1 (For Marks)
Due: 9:00am on Monday, September 17, 2018
You will receive no credit for items you complete after the assignment is due. Grading Policy
  A message from your instructor...
This is the first assignment for that will count for marks. All of the information you need to answer these questions can be found in the course outline and in the documents linked in the questions themselves.
 Item 1
 Part A
Have you read and understood the university's Code of Behaviour on Academic Matters (www.governingcouncil.utoronto.ca/policies/behaveac.htm)?
ANSWER:
   yes
no
  Correct
 Item 2
 Part A
Have you read and understood the university's directions on how to avoid committing acts of academic dishonesty (http://www.writing.utoronto.ca/advice/using­sources/how­not­to­plagiarize)?
ANSWER:
   yes
no
  Correct
 Item 3
 Part A
If you have to miss more than the allowed number of clicker quizzes, what should you do?
https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898216 1/6

 9/21/2018 Assignment 1 (For Marks)
ANSWER:
  Email appropriate documentation of your absence to ast101@astro.utoronto.ca . Tell your TA.
Lose marks.
Lend your clicker to your friend so that they can click in for you.
     Correct
 Item 4
 Part A
If you click in on someone else's clicker, you will lose marks. How many times would you have to do that before you would risk losing the entire clicker portion of your grade?
ANSWER:
  once
twice
five times ten times
    Correct
 Item 5
 Part A
Let's say you have to go to the bathroom during a lecture and you're worried about missing a clicker quiz. You decide to give your clicker to a friend to click in for you in case there is a clicker quiz while you are out of the room. What would be the penalty for this behaviour?
ANSWER:
https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898216 2/6

  9/21/2018 Assignment 1 (For Marks)
 Correct
 You will lose the marks for that clicker quiz if you are caught.
You will lose all of the clicker marks for the course if you are caught.
You and your friend will both lose the marks for that clicker quiz if you are caught.
You and your friend could both lose all of the clicker marks for the course if you are caught.
 Item 6
 Part A
Do you understand that, if you submit plagiarized work on an assignment even once, you may lose all of the assignment marks for the whole course?
ANSWER:
  yes
no
  Correct
 Item 7
 Part A
Let's say another student tells you that she will be away for a week visiting a sick family member.
She gives you her clicker and asks you to click in for her so that she won't lose any marks while she is away. What should you do?
ANSWER:
  Take your friend's clicker and click in for her during the times she is absent.
Run to the professor to tell on your friend.
Remind your friend that she can miss 4 lectures without penalty or explanation and that, for longer absences, she can submit appropriate documentation to her college registrar. Then refuse her request.
Make a deal with your friend that you will click in for her while she is absent but only if she does two assignments for you when she returns.
       https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898216 3/6

 9/21/2018 Assignment 1 (For Marks)
Correct
 Item 8
  Part A
Which of the following DO NOT count as acceptable excuses for a first academic dishonesty offense? Click all answers that apply.
ANSWER:
  No one told me the rules.
This would have been okay in the last school I attended. Other people do this all the time.
I just wanted to help my friend.
I thought I deserved the marks.
     Correct
 Item 9
 Part A
On the following list, click the answer which does NOT describe an instance of academic dishonesty. ANSWER:
  Copying the answer to an assignment question from Yahoo Answers.
Clicking in on a clicker other than your own.
Copying a friend's answer to an assignment question, but re­wording it.
Submitting an image you found on the internet as if it was your own creation.
Discussing a question with your friends and then submitting an answer in your own words. Copying an answer from the person sitting at the table next to you during an exam.
      Correct
https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898216 4/6

 9/21/2018 Assignment 1 (For Marks)
 Item 10
 Part A
If there are 100 clicker questions in class over the course of the term, approximately what fraction of your final grade is each one worth?
ANSWER:
 5%
0.08% 8% 1%
     Correct
 Item 11
 Part A
Which of the following best describes the acceptable way to complete assignments for this course? ANSWER:
  Correct
Work in a group of your friends and decide among the group of view what the correct answers are, then everyone inputs the same answers.
Refer to the book and talk to your friends when thinking about the questions, but come up with and input the answers on your own.
Use Google to look up the correct answers and input those.
 Item 12
 Part A ­ Con Hall Quiet Zones
Have you read and understood the policy in the course outline regarding quiet areas in Con Hall? ANSWER:
   https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898216 5/6

 9/21/2018 Assignment 1 (For Marks)
   Correct
Score Summary:
Your score on this assignment is 100%.
You received 12 out of a possible total of 12 points.
yes
no
  https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898216 6/6

 9/21/2018 Assignment 2
Assignment 2
Due: 9:00am on Monday, September 24, 2018
You will receive no credit for items you complete after the assignment is due. Grading Policy
  Chapter 1 Question 12
 Part A
Which of the following statements does not use the term light­year in an appropriate way? ANSWER:
  It will take the Voyager spacecraft about 20,000 years to travel just 1 light­year.
A light­year is about 10 trillion kilometers.
The Milky Way Galaxy is about 100,000 light­years in diameter. It's about 4 light­years from here to Alpha Centauri.
It will take me light­years to complete this homework assignment.
     Correct
 Ranking Task: Orbital Distance, Mass, and Radius of Planets
 Part A
The following images show six objects in our solar system. Rank the objects from left to right based on their average distance from the Sun, from farthest to closest. (Not to scale.)
ANSWER:
 Correct
   Reset
Help
                                                                      Farthest Closest
 https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898214 1/12

 9/21/2018 Assignment 2
 Part B
The following images show six objects in our solar system. Rank these objects from left to right based on their mass, from highest to lowest. (Not to scale.) ANSWER:
    Reset
Help
                                                                     Highest mass Lowest mass
  Correct
Be sure to notice that the masses of these objects are vastly different. For example, the Sun is more than 1,000 times as massive as all the planets combined, and Jupiter is more massive than all the rest of the planets combined.
 Part C
The images below show six objects in our solar system. Rank these objects by size (average equatorial radius), from largest to smallest. (Not to scale.) ANSWER:
     Reset
Help
                                                  Largest radius Smallest radius
 https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898214 2/12

 9/21/2018 Assignment 2
 Correct
Sizes (radii) do not vary nearly as much as the masses, but the differences are still substantial. For example, the Sun’s radius is more than 100 times that of Earth, while Jupiter’s radius is more than 10 times that of Earth.
Ranking Task: Planet Temperature, Orbital Period, and Number of Moons
  Part A
The following images show five planets in our solar system. Rank these planets from left to right based on their average surface (or cloud­top) temperature, from highest to lowest. (Not to scale.)
ANSWER:
  Hint 1. What factors determine a planet’s average surface temperature?
Which of the following factors determine a planet’s average surface temperature? ANSWER:
 distance from the Sun only
distance from the Sun and reflectivity only
distance from the Sun, reflectivity, and strength of greenhouse effect distance from the Sun, reflectivity, strength of greenhouse effect, and mass
       Reset
Help
                                                           Highest temperature Lowest temperature
  Correct
Notice that, for these five planets, temperature correlates with distance from the Sun: the closer to the Sun, the hotter the planet. Remember, however, that this is not always the case, because a planet’s temperature also depends on its reflectivity and on the strength of its greenhouse effect (if any). For example, the greenhouse effect gives Venus a higher average temperature than Mercury, even though Venus is nearly twice as far from the Sun.
 Part B
https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898214 3/12

 9/21/2018 Assignment 2
The following images show five planets in our solar system. Rank these planets from left to right based on the amount of time it takes them to orbit the Sun, from longest to shortest. (Not to scale.)
ANSWER:
   Hint 1. What factors determine how long it takes a planet to orbit the Sun?
Which of the following factors determine how long it takes a planet to orbit the Sun? ANSWER:
 distance from the Sun only
distance from the Sun and orbital eccentricity
distance from the Sun, orbital eccentricity, and mass
distance from the Sun, orbital eccentricity, mass, and rotation rate
       Reset
Help
                                                           Longest time Shortest time
  Correct
Recall that the time it takes a planet to orbit the Sun is called its orbital period, and that Kepler’s third law tells us that orbital period increases with distance from the Sun. That is why the ranking order for orbital period is the same as the ranking order for distance from the Sun.
Part C
The following images show four planets in our solar system. Rank these planets from left to right based on the number of moons that orbit them, from highest to lowest. (Not to scale.)
ANSWER:
https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898214 4/12

 9/21/2018 Assignment 2
   Reset
Help
                                               Highest number Lowest number
  Correct
Jupiter has many moons as a consequence of its formation, in which moons formed in a disk of material surrounding it and its extended atmosphere at the time allowed it to capture numerous small bodies into orbit. Mars has two very small moons that it presumably captured at a time when it, too, had an extended atmosphere. Earth’s single but surprisingly large moon is thought to have formed as a result of a giant impact. Mercury (and Venus) have no moons.
Vocabulary in Context: Basic Planet Facts
  Part A
Match the words in the left­hand column to the appropriate blanks in the sentences in the right­hand column. Use each word only once.
 Hint 1. Which planet Uranus is
Uranus is the seventh planet from the Sun.
Hint 2. Which planet Venus is
Venus is the second planet from the Sun.
Hint 3. Which planet Mercury is Mercury is the planet closest to the Sun.
Hint 4. Which planet Mars is
Mars is the fourth planet from the Sun.
Hint 5. Which planet Jupiter is
Jupiter is the fifth planet from the Sun.
Hint 6. Which planet Earth is
Earth is the third planet from the Sun.
Hint 7. Which planet Neptune is
Neptune is the eighth planet from the Sun.
https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898214 5/12

9/21/2018 Assignment 2
https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898214 6/12
ANSWER:
 Correct
 Hint 8. Which planet Saturn is
Saturn is the sixth planet from the Sun.
   Reset Help
            1.
Uranus
has a rotational axis that is tilted so much it lies nearly in the plane of its orbit.
               2.
Venus
is the planet with the highest average surface temperature.
                 3. The planet that orbits closest to the Sun is
Mercury
.
                  4. The only rocky planet to have more than one moon is
Mars
.
               5.
Jupiter
is the jovian planet that orbits closest to the Sun.
                6. Most of the surface of
Earth
is covered with liquid water.
               7.
Neptune
is about 30 times as far from the Sun as our own planet.
          8. The planet with the lowest average density is
Saturn
.
   Chapter 7 Question 16
 Part A
The planet closest in size to Earth is ANSWER:
  the Moon.
Mars. Venus. Pluto. Mercury.
     Correct
 Key Concept: Astronomical Distance Units
Learning Goal:
To understand the way we use the astronomical unit (AU) and light­year in astronomy.
 
 9/21/2018 Assignment 2
 Part A
Place each statement in the correct bin corresponding to whether it represents 1 astronomical unit (1 AU), 1 light­year, or neither of those.
ANSWER:
   Hint 1. Distances from the Sun of Mars and Jupiter
• Mars’s average distance from the Sun is 227.9 million kilometers, or about 1.5 times Earth’s distance from the Sun.
• Jupiter’s average distance from the Sun is 778.3 million kilometers, or about 5.2 times Earth’s distance from the Sun.
   Reset
Help
                                                    1 astronomical unit (AU)
1 light­year
Neither 1 AU nor 1 light­year
        Earth's average distance from the Sun
the distance light travels in 1 year
      Mars's average distance from the Sun
        about 150 million kilometers
about 10 trillion kilometers
       the diameter of Earth
        Jupiter lies about 5.2 of these from the Sun
the star Sirius lies about 8 of these from the Sun
       Correct
We define 1 AU to be Earth's average distance from the Sun, which is about 150 million kilometers (more precisely, 149.6 million kilometers); 1 light­year is defined to be the distance that light can travel in one year, which is about 10 trillion kilometers (more precisely, 9.46 trillion kilometers).
Part B
Match the choices in the left­hand column to the appropriate blank in the in the right­hand column. Use each choice only once.
ANSWER:
 Hint 1.
https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898214 7/12

 9/21/2018 Assignment 2
 Correct
Keep these distances in mind as you study astronomy, and it will help you put other distance scales into perspective by comparison.
   Reset Help
            Mars is
about 1.5 AU
from the Sun.
               Jupiter is
about 5 AU
from the Sun.
                 The star Sirius is
about 8 light­years
from the Sun.
                  The diameter of the Milky Way Galaxy is
about 100,000 light­years
.
           The distance from Earth to the Moon is
less than 0.01 AU
.
   Chapter 1 Question 1
 Part A
Which of the following has your "address" in the correct order? ANSWER:
 you, Earth, solar system, Local Group, Milky Way, Local Supercluster
you, Earth, solar system, Local Group, Local Supercluster, Milky Way you, Earth, solar system, Milky Way, Local Group, Local Supercluster you, Earth, Local Group, Local Supercluster, solar system, Milky Way you, Earth, solar system, Milky Way, Local Supercluster, Local Group
      Correct
 Prelecture Reading Question 1.02
 Part A
Our solar system consists of _________. ANSWER:
 the Sun and several nearby stars, as well as the planets and other objects that orbit these stars
the Sun and all the objects that orbit it
the Sun and the planets, and nothing else
a few hundred billion stars, bound together by gravity
      https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898214 8/12

  9/21/2018 Assignment 2
Correct
 Prelecture Reading Question 1.03
  Part A
Which of the following best describes what we mean by the universe? ANSWER:
  all the galaxies in all the superclusters
the sum total of all matter and energy
a vast collection of stars that number as many as the grains of sand on all the beaches on Earth our Milky Way Galaxy
    Correct
 Prelecture Reading Question 1.06
 Part A
A television advertisement claiming that a product is light­years ahead of its time does not make sense because _________. ANSWER:
  it uses "light­years" to talk about time, but a light­year is a unit of distance
light­years can only be used to talk about light
it doesn't specify the number of light­years
a light­year is an astronomically large unit, so a product could not possibly be so advanced
    Correct
 Problem 1.2
 Part A
Define astronomical unit. ANSWER:
  The distance that light can travel in 1 year, which is about 150 billion kilometers.
The average distance between Earth and the Sun, which is about 150 million kilometers.
The distance that Earth travels around the Sun in 1 year, which is about 9.46 million kilometers. The average distance between the Sun and the Pluto, which is about 5.9 billion kilometers. The average distance between Earth and the Sun, which is about 9.46 billion kilometers.
     https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898214 9/12

 9/21/2018 Assignment 2
Correct
 Part B
Define light­year. ANSWER:
  The distance that Earth travels around the Sun in 1 year, which is about 9.46 million kilometers.
The distance that light travels in 1 year, which is about 9.46 trillion kilometers.
The distance that light can travel in 1 year, which is about 150 billion kilometers.
The distance that light can travel in 1 year, which is about 150 trillion kilometers.
The average distance between Earth and the Sun, which is about 9.46 billion kilometers.
     Correct
  Problem 1.25
 Part A
The star Betelgeuse is about 600 light­years away. If it explodes tonight, ANSWER:
  we won't know about it until about 600 years from now.
we'll know because it will be brighter than the full Moon in the sky.
we'll know because debris from the explosion will rain down on us from space.
   Correct
 Chapter 1 Question 32
 Part A
What is an astronomical unit? ANSWER:
  any basic unit used in astronomy
the average distance from Earth to the Sun
the diameter of Earth's orbit around the Sun
the average speed of Earth around the Sun
the length of time it takes Earth to revolve around the Sun
     Correct
https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898214 10/12

 9/21/2018 Assignment 2
 Chapter 1 Question 74
 Part A
Explain why Pluto is no longer considered a planet. ANSWER:
  It has not cleared most other objects from its orbital path.
It is not large enough for its own gravity to make it round. It does not orbit a star.
   Correct
 Chapter 7 Question 7
 Part A
Which of the following is farthest from the Sun? ANSWER:
  Pluto
an asteroid in the asteroid belt a comet in the Kuiper belt
a comet in the Oort cloud Neptune
     Correct
 Chapter 7 Question 18
 Part A
Which of the following is not a characteristic of the outer planets? ANSWER:
  Their orbits are separated by relatively large distances.
They have very few, if any, satellites.
They all have rings.
They are primarily made of hydrogen and helium.
    Correct
 Chapter 7 Question 13
https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898214 11/12

 9/21/2018 Assignment 2
Part A
Which of the following statements is not an observed pattern of motion in our solar system? ANSWER:
  Most planetary orbits lie nearly in the same plane.
All planets orbit the Sun in the same direction.
Most planets orbit at the same speed.
Almost all moons orbit their planet in the same direction as the planet's rotation. Most planets rotate in the same direction in which they orbit.
     Correct
  Prelecture Reading Question 7.03
 Part A
What is the Kuiper belt? ANSWER:
  Correct
a region of the solar system beginning just beyond the orbit of Neptune that contains many icy comets
the most prominent ring of Saturn that is visible in photographs a technical name for the asteroid belt
a region of the solar system that extends almost a fourth of the way to the nearest stars and contains a trillion comets with orbits going in all directions around the Sun
 Prelecture Reading Question 7.04
 Part A
What is the Oort cloud? ANSWER:
Score Summary:
Your score on this assignment is 100%.
You received 26 out of a possible total of 26 points.
  It is a great cloud of gas that resides far beyond the orbit of Pluto.
It is a giant storm in the atmosphere of Saturn.
It's not really a cloud at all, but rather refers to the trillion or so comets thought to orbit the Sun at great distances. It is another name for the cloud of gas from which our solar system was born.
    Correct
    https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898214 12/12

 9/28/2018 Assignment 3
Assignment 3
Due: 9:00am on Monday, October 1, 2018
You will receive no credit for items you complete after the assignment is due. Grading Policy
  Prelecture Narrated Figure: Kepler's First Law
First, launch the video below. Then, close the video window and answer the questions at right. You can watch the video again at any point.
   Part A
Which of the following paths could not be a real orbit for a planet around the Sun? ANSWER:
https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898211 1/23

 9/28/2018 Assignment 3
       Correct
Kepler’s first law tells us that the orbit of a planet must be an ellipse with the Sun at one focus. Therefore, the path that shows the Sun in the center of the ellipse, rather than at a focus, cannot be the real orbital path of a planet. (Note that the circular path is allowed because a circle is an ellipse in which both foci are at the center.)
  Part B
Which of the following orbits has the largest semimajor axis? ANSWER:
     https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898211 2/23

 9/28/2018 Assignment 3
      Correct
The semimajor axis is half of the distance across the ellipse in its longest direction (which means half of the major axis), which is also the planet’s average distance from the Sun. Therefore, the ellipse that measures the longest across is the one with the largest semimajor axis.
  Part C
Which of the following orbits is the most eccentric? ANSWER:
    https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898211 3/23

 9/28/2018 Assignment 3
      Correct
Eccentricity is a measure of how “stretched out” an ellipse is. A perfect circle has zero eccentricity, and the most stretched out ellipse has the largest eccentricity.
  Part D
Which of the following orbits shows the planet at aphelion? ANSWER:
    https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898211 4/23

 9/28/2018 Assignment 3
  Correct
Aphelion is the point in a planet’s orbit that is farthest from the Sun.
    Prelecture Narrated Figure: Kepler's Second Law
First, launch the video below. Then, close the video window and answer the questions at right. You can watch the video again at any point.
   Part A
Earth is slightly closer to the Sun in January than in July. How does the area swept out by Earth’s orbit around the Sun during the 31 days of January compare to the area swept out during the 31 days of July?
ANSWER:
  The area swept out in July is larger.
The area swept out in January is larger. Both areas are the same.
       https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898211 5/23

 9/28/2018 Assignment 3
 Correct
Kepler’s second law tells us that a planet always sweeps out equal areas in equal times. Therefore, Earth sweeps out the same area in any 31­ day period, no matter what month it is.
Part B
All of the following statements are true. Which one can be explained by Kepler’s second law? ANSWER:
  Mars moves faster in its orbit when it is closer to the Sun than when it is farther from the Sun.
The Sun is not in the precise center of Saturn’s orbit. Earth is slightly closer to the Sun in January than in July. All the planets orbit the Sun in nearly the same plane. Venus orbits the Sun at a faster orbital speed than Earth.
       Correct
Kepler’s second law tells us that a planet moves faster in its orbit when it is closer to the Sun (near perihelion) than when it is farther (near aphelion). This law applies to all planets and therefore explains the statement about Mars.
 Prelecture Narrated Figure: Kepler's Third Law, Part 2
First, launch the video below. Then, close the video window and answer the questions at right. You can watch the video again at any point.
   Part A
All of the following statements are true. Which one can be explained by Kepler’s third law? ANSWER:
  Earth is slightly closer to the Sun in January than in July.
Venus orbits the Sun at a faster orbital speed than Earth.
Mars moves faster in its orbit when it is closer to the Sun than when it is farther from the Sun. All the planets orbit the Sun in nearly the same plane.
The Sun is not in the precise center of Saturn’s orbit.
      Correct
Kepler’s third law can be stated as the precise mathematical relationship ; (where p is the planet’s orbital period in years and a is its average orbital distance in ). The essence of the law, however, is that it means planets closer to the Sun orbit at faster average speeds than planets farther from the Sun. Therefore, Venus orbits at a faster orbital speed than Earth, because Venus is closer to the Sun.
https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898211 6/23
3a = 2p
UA

  9/28/2018 Assignment 3
 Ranking Task: Pairs of Gravitationally Interacting Objects
 Part A
The following five diagrams show pairs of astronomical objects that are all separated by the same distance . Assume the asteroids are all identical and relatively small, just a few kilometers across. Considering only the two objects shown in each pair, rank the strength, from strongest to weakest, of the gravitational force acting on the asteroid on the left.
ANSWER:
  Hint 1. What does the strength of gravity depend on?
The force of gravity follows an inverse square law, meaning that the strength of the force declines with the square of the distance between two
masses. But if the distances between pairs of objects are all the same, as in Part A, then the strength of gravity depends only on __________. ANSWER:
Hint 2. Comparative masses for the objects shown
Here are some comparisons for the masses of the objects on the right:
• The Sun’s mass is about 330,000 times the mass of the Earth.
• Earth’s mass is about 80 times the mass of the Moon.
• The Moon’s mass is about a million times that of a typical small asteroid.
• A typical small asteroid has a mass at least a million trillion trillion trillion times that of a hydrogen atom.
With this information and an understanding of the factors that determine the strength of gravity, you should be able to complete Part A.
  the size of the larger mass in the pair
the sum of the two object masses ( ) the product of the two object masses (
the size of the smaller mass in the pair
)
      Reset
Help
                             Strongest force Weakest force
                               https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898211 7/23
d
2M × 1M 2M + 1M

 9/28/2018 Assignment 3
 Correct
Because the distance is the same for all five cases, the gravitational force depends only on the product of the masses. And because the same asteroid is on the left in all five cases, the relative strength of gravitational force depends on the mass of the object on the right. Continue to Part B to explore what happens if we instead ask about the gravitational force acting on the object on the right.
Part B
The following diagrams are the same as those from Part A. Again considering only the two objects shown in each pair, this time rank the strength, from strongest to weakest, of the gravitational force acting on the object on the right.
ANSWER:
   Hint 1. How can Newton’s third law help you solve this problem? ANSWER:
 According to Newton’s third law __________.
the gravitational force exerted by the asteroids on the left will be equal for each pair of objects because all the asteroids have the same mass
to find the force on the object on the right, you just have to divide the asteroid mass by the mass of the object on the right
the strength of the force that the object on the left exerts on the object on the right has to be exactly the same (but in an opposite direction) as the force the object on the right exerts on the object on the left
      Reset
Help
                             Strongest force Weakest force
                                Correct
Newton’s third law tells us that the gravitational force exerted on the asteroid on the left by the object on the right will be equal in magnitude, but opposite in direction to the gravitational force exerted on the object on the right by the asteroid on the left. That is why the ranking here is the same as the ranking for Part A.
 Part C
The following diagrams are the same as those from Part A. This time, rank the pairs from left to right based on the size of the acceleration the asteroid on the left would have due to the gravitational force exerted on it by the object on the right, from largest to smallest.
 https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898211 8/23

 9/28/2018 Assignment 3
ANSWER:
  Hint 1. How can Newton’s second law help you solve this problem?
According to Newton’s second law, the greater the force exerted on an object, the greater the object’s _____. ANSWER:
  acceleration
mass distance velocity
      Reset
Help
                             Largest acceleration Smallest acceleration
                                Correct
According to Newton’s second law, the asteroid with the largest acceleration will be the one that has the strongest gravitational force exerted on it by the object on the right. That is why the ranking here is the same as the ranking for Part A.
 Part D
Consider Earth and the Moon. As you should now realize, the gravitational force that Earth exerts on the Moon is equal and opposite to that which the Moon exerts on Earth. Therefore, according to Newton’s second law of motion __________.
 Hint 1. How can Newton’s second law help you solve this problem?
Newton’s second law of motion states that force equals mass times acceleration, or F=ma. Suppose you have already calculated the gravitational
force, which we will call Fg , attracting Earth and the Moon. Then the amount of acceleration of Earth due to this force is __________. ANSWER:
https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898211 9/23

9/28/2018 Assignment 3
  https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898211 10/23
ANSWER:
  Earth has a larger acceleration than the Moon, because it has a larger mass
the Moon and Earth both have equal accelerations, because the forces are equal the Moon has a larger acceleration than Earth, because it has a smaller mass
  Fg divided by the acceleration of the Earth Fg divided by the acceleration of the Moon Fg divided by the mass of the Moon
Fg divided by the mass of the Earth
Correct
Newton’s second law of motion, F=ma, means that for a particular force F, the product mass x acceleration must always be the same. Therefore if mass is larger, acceleration must be smaller, and vice versa.
 Chapter 4 Question 11
 Part A
Suppose an object is moving in a straight line at 50 miles/hr. According to Newton's first law of motion, the object will ANSWER:
 continue to move in the same way forever, no matter what happens.
continually slow down but never quite come to a complete stop.
eventually slow down and come to a stop.
continue to move in a straight line forever if it is in space, but slow and stop otherwise. continue to move in the same way until it is acted upon by a force.
      Correct
 Chapter 4 Question 38
 Part A
According to the universal law of gravitation, the force due to gravity is ANSWER:
      
 9/28/2018 Assignment 3
  Correct
inversely proportional to the square of the distance between objects.
directly proportional to the square of the distance between objects. directly proportional to the distance between objects.
inversely proportional to the distance between objects.
not dependent on the distance between objects.
 Chapter 4 Question 41
 Part A
According to the universal law of gravitation, if you double the masses of both attracting objects, then the gravitational force between them will ANSWER:
  decrease by a factor of 2.
decrease by a factor of 4. increase by a factor of 2. not change at all. increase by a factor of 4.
     Correct
 Chapter 4 Question 1
 Part A
Which of the following is an example in which you are traveling at constant speed but not at constant velocity? ANSWER:
 rolling freely down a hill in a cart, traveling in a straight line
driving backward at exactly 50 km/hr
driving around in a circle at exactly 100 km/hr
jumping up and down, with a period of exactly 60 hops per minute none of the above
      Correct
 Chapter 4 Question 5
     https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898211 11/23

 9/28/2018 Assignment 3
 Part A
If an object's velocity is doubled, its momentum is ANSWER:
  doubled.
quadrupled.
dependent on its acceleration. halved.
unchanged.
     Correct
 Chapter 4 Question 6
 Part A
As long as an object is not gaining or losing mass, a net force on the object will cause a change in ANSWER:
  weight.
direction. speed. acceleration. velocity.
     Correct
 Chapter 4 Question 10
 Part A
What would happen if the Space Shuttle were launched with a speed greater than Earth's escape velocity? ANSWER:
  It would be in an unstable orbit.
It would travel away from Earth into the solar system. It would travel in a higher orbit around Earth.
It would orbit Earth at a faster velocity.
It would take less time to reach its bound orbit.
     Correct
https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898211 12/23

 9/28/2018 Assignment 3
 Chapter 4 Question 18
 Part A
What quantities does angular momentum depend upon? ANSWER:
  momentum and angular velocity
mass and velocity
force, velocity, and radius mass, velocity, and radius force and radius
     Correct
 Chapter 4 Question 45
 Part A
According to what we now know from Newton's laws, which of the following best explains why Kepler's second law is true? ANSWER:
  A planet's angular momentum must be conserved as it moves around its orbit.
This effect happens because of the influence of other planets on a particular planet's orbit. Gravity is an inverse cube law.
Orbits must be elliptical in shape.
    Correct
 Chapter 2 Question 14
 Part A
What makes the North Star, Polaris, special? ANSWER:
  It can be used to determine your longitude on Earth.
It is the star directly on your northern horizon. It appears very near the north celestial pole. It is the star straight overhead.
It is the brightest star in the sky.
      https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898211 13/23

 9/28/2018 Assignment 3
Correct
 Chapter 2 Question 15
  Part A
You are standing on Earth's equator. Which way is Polaris, the North star? ANSWER:
  The answer depends on what time of day (or night) it is.
on the northern horizon
directly overhead
The answer depends on whether it's winter or summer. 30 degrees up, due West
     Correct
 Chapter 2 Question 17
 Part A
Orion is visible on winter evenings in the northern hemisphere but not summer evenings because of ANSWER:
  baseball on television.
the location of Earth in its orbit. the tilt of Earth's axis.
the precession of Earth's axis. interference from the full Moon.
     Correct
 Prelecture Narrated Figure: Seasons
First, launch the video below. Then, close the video window and answer the questions at right. You can watch the video again at any point.
   Part A
https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898211 14/23

 9/28/2018 Assignment 3
What is the basic reason that we have seasons on Earth? ANSWER:
  The amount of energy put out by the Sun varies over the course of each year.
Earth’s distance from the Sun varies over the course of each year. Earth’s axis is tilted relative to the ecliptic plane.
Earth’s orbit is not quite a perfect circle.
      Correct
As shown in the video, the tilt of Earth’s axis means that sunlight hits the two hemispheres differently as we orbit the Sun, leading to opposite seasons in the Northern and Southern Hemispheres.
Part B
What happens to Earth’s axis as we orbit around the Sun over the course of each year? ANSWER:
  It remains pointed in the same direction at all times.
It wobbles back and forth, so that the tilt varies between 0° and 231⁄2°.
It sweeps out a cone while remaining at a 231⁄2° tilt, so that it sometimes points toward Polaris and sometimes toward other stars.
     Correct
As shown in the video, the axis remains pointed in the direction of Polaris at all times. That is why the orientation relative to the Sun changes over the course of the year.
Part C
Which of the following statements are true about summer compared to winter?
Select all that apply.
ANSWER:
  Temperatures tend to be warmer in summer.
The Sun follows a longer and higher path through your sky in summer. At a given time of day, shadows are longer in summer.
You have more daylight and less darkness in summer.
     Correct
The key features of summer are a longer and higher path for the Sun through the sky, which means more concentrated sunlight — generally leading to higher temperatures — and shorter shadows.
 Part D
What is special about the June solstice? ANSWER:
https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898211 15/23

 9/28/2018 Assignment 3
 It’s the day on which the Northern Hemisphere receives its most direct sunlight.
It’s the day when the Sun has the longest and highest path through the Southern Hemisphere sky. It’s the longest day of the year for everyone on Earth.
It’s the day when Earth has the greatest axis tilt.
 Correct
The June solstice is when the Northern Hemisphere is most directly oriented toward the Sun, which is why this hemisphere gets its most direct sunlight on this day.
Part E
Suppose you live at a mid­latitude in the Southern Hemisphere (such as in Australia, New Zealand, Chile, or South Africa). When will you have 12 hours of daylight and 12 hours of darkness?
ANSWER:
 on the December solstice only
on the March equinox only
on both the June and December solstices
on the June solstice only
on both the March and September equinoxes
        Correct
Recall that equinox means “equal night,” so the two equinoxes are the dates on which all locations (except the poles) have equal amounts of daylight and darkness. Note: More technically, these are the dates on which the Sun is above the horizon for 12 hours and below it for 12 hours; of course, it does not instantly become dark when the Sun is below the horizon, so there is still some “daylight” in the evening and predawn hours.
 Key Concept: Conditions for Eclipses
Launch the video below and review the relevant sections of your textbook, then answer the questions that follow. You can watch the video again at any point.
   Part A
Suppose that instead of being inclined to Earth's orbit around the Sun, the Moon’s orbit was in the same plane as Earth’s orbit around the Sun. In this hypothetical situation, approximately how many solar eclipses would occur each year?
 Hint 1. What phase of the moon is required for a solar eclipse?
A solar eclipse can occur only when the phase of the moon is __________. ANSWER:
    https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898211 16/23

9/28/2018 Assignment 3
  https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898211 17/23
ANSWER:
  0
1 2 12 24
       Hint 2. How often does a new moon occur? About how often does a new moon occur? ANSWER:
  once a week
once a month once a year
  new
full
first­ or third­quarter
Correct
If the Moon orbited Earth in the same plane that Earth orbits the Sun (the ecliptic plane), we would have a solar eclipse at every new moon. Because there are about twelve new moons in a year, we would have twelve solar eclipses. Of course, this isn’t what really happens. Continue to Part B to study the real situation.
Part B
In reality, the Moon’s orbit about Earth is tilted (by about 5°) with respect to Earth’s orbit about the Sun. As a result, the actual number of solar eclipses that occur each year is approximately _____.
ANSWER:
  0
1 2 12 24
     Correct
There are generally two periods of time each year when eclipses are possible — the “eclipse seasons” — and there is a solar eclipse of some type (partial, total, or annular) during each of these eclipse seasons. (Because the time between eclipse seasons is less than six months, in some years there is a third eclipse season and hence a third solar eclipse.)
 Part C
What conditions must exist for a solar eclipse to occur? Select all that apply.
     
 9/28/2018 Assignment 3
 ANSWER:
  the Moon must be passing through Earth’s orbital plane
it must be new moon
the Moon must be above Earth's orbital plane
it must be full moon
it must be near the time of the spring or fall equinox
      Hint 1. What is a solar eclipse?
A solar eclipse occurs when __________. ANSWER:
  Earth’s shadow falls on the Moon
the Sun’s shadow falls on the Moon the Moon’s shadow falls on Earth
   Correct
The two points at which the Moon’s orbit crosses the Earth’s orbital plane are called the nodes of the Moon’s orbit. So another way to state the conditions for a solar eclipse is that (1) it must be new moon, and (2) the Moon must be at or quite near one of the nodes of its orbit.
Part D
What conditions must exist for a lunar eclipse to occur? Select all that apply.
 ANSWER:
  it must be full moon
the Moon must be passing through Earth’s orbital plane it must be new moon
it must be near the time of the summer or winter solstice the Moon must be below Earth's orbital plane
      Hint 1. What is a lunar eclipse?
A lunar eclipse occurs when __________. ANSWER:
  Earth’s shadow falls on the Moon
the Sun’s shadow falls on the Moon the Moon’s shadow falls on Earth
  https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898211 18/23

 9/28/2018 Assignment 3
 Correct
The two points at which the Moon’s orbit crosses the Earth’s orbital plane are called the nodes of the Moon’s orbit. So another way to state the conditions for a lunar eclipse is that (1) it must be full moon, and (2) the Moon must be at or quite near one of the nodes of its orbit.
Prelecture Video: Cause and Orbital Positions of Moon Phases
First, launch the video below. Then, close the video window and answer the questions that follow. You can watch the video again at any point.
    Part A
Consider the Moon when it is in the position shown in the moon phase diagram below. How much of the Moon's total surface is illuminated by sunlight at this time?
ANSWER:
   about one­quarter
exactly half
none
about three­eighths about one­eighth
     Correct
No matter where the Moon is in its orbit around Earth, half the Moon is facing the Sun and therefore is illuminated by sunlight.
 Part B
Again consider the position of the Moon shown in part A. How much of the Moon's surface is covered by Earth's shadow? ANSWER:
https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898211 19/23

 9/28/2018 Assignment 3
exactly half
none
about one­eighth about one­quarter about three­quarters
  Correct
Earth's shadow can never touch the Moon at all in this position. In fact, it cannot touch the Moon at any phase except full moon, and even then only when we have a lunar eclipse, in which the Moon is directly aligned with the Earth and Sun.
 Part C
Again consider the position of the Moon shown in part A. What does the Moon look like in our sky at this time? ANSWER:
          Correct
This is a waxing crescent moon because it comes when the Moon is on its way from new to full.
      https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898211 20/23

 9/28/2018 Assignment 3
 Part D
Which of the following best summarizes the reason we see phases of the Moon? ANSWER:
  Half the Moon is always illuminated by the Sun, but the phase we see depends on how much of this half we are looking at from Earth.
Earth casts a shadow into space, and the Moon's phase depends on how much of Earth's shadow is touching the Moon.
The amount of the Moon that is illuminated by sunlight varies as it orbits the Earth, thereby determining the phase that we see.
   Correct
Just to be sure you understand the idea, try a few more simple exercises.
 Part E
Which photo shows what the Moon looks like when it is in the position shown in the following moon phase diagram?
ANSWER:
 https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898211 21/23

 9/28/2018 Assignment 3
  Correct
This is full moon because it comes when we are looking at the Moon's entire sunlit face.
     Part F
Suppose you look up in the sky and the Moon appears as in the photo below. Which of the following diagrams correctly shows the Moon's location in its orbit around Earth for this phase?
ANSWER:
     https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898211 22/23

 9/28/2018 Assignment 3
  Correct
This is a waning gibbous moon because it comes when the Moon is past being full and on its way back to new.
Score Summary:
Your score on this assignment is 91.4%.
You received 26.5 out of a possible total of 29 points.
          https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898211 23/23

 10/13/2018 Assignment 4
Assignment 4
Due: 9:00am on Monday, October 15, 2018
You will receive no credit for items you complete after the assignment is due. Grading Policy
  Problem 4.34
Choose the best answer.
 Part A
If the Moon were closer to Earth, high tides would: ANSWER:
  be higher than they are now.
be lower than they are now.
occur three or more times a day rather than twice a day.
   Correct
 Key Concept: Understanding Tides
Learning Goal:
To understand the cause and basic properties of tides on Earth.
Click the image below to launch the video: Understanding Tides. Once you have watched the entire video, answer the follow­up questions on the right. You can watch the video again at any point.
Note: Before you begin, you should identify the positions in the Moon's orbit shown in the video that correspond to new moon, full moon, and first­ and third­ quarter moon (if necessary, review the section of your textbook on phases of the Moon). You will need to recognize these positions to follow the video explanation.
   Part A
As shown in the video, Earth has two tidal bulges at all times. Approximately where are these bulges located?
 Hint 1. Identifying the locations of the tidal bulges
Notice the labels identifying the locations of the tidal bulges, and observe how their positions change as the Moon orbits Earth.
Hint 2. How are the bulges in the video related to high and low tide? In the video, high tide on Earth is represented by __________. ANSWER:
https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898209 1/27

10/13/2018 Assignment 4
  https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898209 2/27
 ANSWER:
  Both are on lines perpendicular to the Earth­Moon line.
One faces the Moon and one faces opposite the Moon.
One faces the Moon and one faces the Sun.
One is over the Atlantic Ocean, and one is over the Pacific Ocean.
     the two places where the light blue region is thinnest
the two places where the light blue region is thickest the regions at which the double yellow arrow points
Correct
The tidal bulges face toward and away from the Moon, because they are caused primarily by the gravitational attraction between Earth and the Moon. Friction explains why the bulges are slightly ahead of the Earth­Moon line, rather than directly on the Earth­Moon line. We'll ignore that detail for now.
Part B
Most people are familiar with the rise and fall of ocean tides. Do tides also affect land?
 ANSWER:
 No, tides only affect the oceans.
No, tides can only affect liquids and gases, not solids.
Yes, land rises and falls with tides equally as high (and low) as the oceans. Yes, though land rises and falls by a much smaller amount than the oceans.
     Hint 1. Do tides affect Earth's atmosphere? Do tides affect Earth's atmosphere? ANSWER:
  No, because tides only affect liquids like ocean water.
No, because tides only affect water, not other molecules. Yes, because atmospheric gas has mass.
  Correct
Tides affect the entire Earth, but they are much more noticeable for the oceans because water flows so much more easily than land. Still, the land rises and falls about 1 centimeter with the tides.
 Part C
Any particular location on Earth experiences __________.
 Hint 1. How to determine days and months in the video
     
10/13/2018 Assignment 4
  https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898209 3/27
ANSWER:
  two high tides and two low tides each month
two sets of high and low tides in the ocean, but only one set on land two high tides and two low tides each day
one high tide and one low tide each day
one high tide and one low tide each month
       You can easily tell the amount of time passing in the video. A day is one full rotation of Earth, while a month is approximately one orbit of the Moon around Earth. You should now be able to answer Part C by carefully watching the video and observing how often a particular location on Earth has high and low tides.
Correct
The video shows that any location on Earth passes through both tidal bulges and both tidal minima (the places where the tides are smallest) each day, which means two high tides and two low tides. Again, recall that this is true for both land and oceans, though tides are more noticeable in the oceans because water flows so much more readily than land.
Part D
One tidal bulge faces toward the Moon because that is where the gravitational attraction between Earth and the Moon is strongest. Which of the following best explains why there is also a second tidal bulge?
  ANSWER:
  Hint 1. How gravity leads to the tidal force
The figure below shows how the gravitational attraction to the Moon varies across Earth. This variation in gravitational force is the source of the tidal force: One side of Earth is pulled more strongly toward the Moon than the other, causing Earth to stretch along the Earth­Moon line.
The second tidal bulge arises because gravity weakens with distance, essentially stretching Earth along the Earth­Moon line.
The second tidal bulge is a rebound effect, created when water on the side facing the Moon falls back down and thereby pushes up the water on the opposite side of Earth.
The second tidal bulge is created by the Sun's gravity.
The second tidal bulge is created by the centrifugal force caused by Earth's rapid rotation.
Correct
Tides are created by gravity, and the tidal force is caused by the fact that gravity weakens with distance. Therefore, the parts of Earth that are closer to the Moon feel a stronger gravitational attraction to the Moon, and the parts of Earth that are farther away feel a weaker gravitational attraction to the Moon. This varying gravitational attraction essentially stretches Earth along the Earth­Moon line, creating tidal bulges on both sides.
      
 10/13/2018 Assignment 4
 Part E
As you watch the video, notice that the size of the tidal bulges varies with the Moon's phase, which depends on its orbital position relative to the Sun. Which of the following statement(s) accurately describe(s) this variation?
Select all that apply.
 ANSWER:
  Low tides are highest at both full moon and new moon.
Low tides are highest at full moon and lowest at new moon. Low tides are lowest at both full moon and new moon.
High tides are highest at first­ and third­quarter moon.
High tides are highest at full moon and lowest at new moon. High tides are highest at both full moon and new moon.
      Hint 1. How to identify Moon phases in the video?
Recall that the phase of the Moon depends on its position in its orbit relative to the Sun (notice the "To Sun" arrow in the video):
Full moon occurs when the Moon is on the opposite side of Earth from the Sun. New moon occurs when the Moon and Sun are on the same side of Earth.
First­ and third­quarter moons occur halfway between the new and full positions; that is, when the Moon lies 90 the Earth­Sun line (which is along the direction "To Sun").
away from
   Now, watch the video and observe how the sizes of the tidal bulges and the tidal minima (the places where the tides are smallest) change as the Moon's phase changes.
 Correct
As the video shows, the tidal bulges are largest and the tidal minima are smallest at full moon and new moon. Those are the times when the tidal forces of the Sun and Moon align (and therefore add to one another). Therefore, high tides are higher and low tides are lower at these times, which are called spring tides. (In contrast, we have neap tides at first­ and third­quarter moons, when high tides are not as high and low tides are not as low.)
 Part F
You have found that tides on Earth are determined primarily by the position of the Moon, with the Sun playing only a secondary role. Why does the Moon play a greater role in causing tides than the Sun?
 ANSWER:
Hint 1. Is gravity stronger between Earth and the Sun or Earth and the Moon?
The gravitational attraction between Earth and the Sun is __________ the gravitational attraction between Earth and the Moon. ANSWER:
  weaker than
the same as stronger than
  https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898209 4/27
seerged

 10/13/2018 Assignment 4
 because the gravitational attraction between Earth and the Moon varies more across Earth than does the gravitational attraction between Earth and the Sun
because the Moon orbits Earth faster than Earth orbits the Sun
because the gravitational force between Earth and the Moon is stronger than the gravitational force between Earth and the Sun
 Correct
The Sun exerts a stronger gravitational force on Earth, which is why Earth orbits the Sun. However, tides are caused by the variation in the gravitational attraction across Earth. Even though the gravitational attraction between Earth and the Moon is smaller than the attraction between Earth and the Sun, the Moon's much closer distance makes this attraction vary more across Earth. That is why tides are due primarily to the Moon, with only a secondary effect from the Sun.
Chapter 4 Question 51
  Part A
At which lunar phase(s) are tides least pronounced (e.g., the lowest high tides)? ANSWER:
  first quarter
full Moon
both first and third quarters both new and full Moons new Moon
     Correct
 Chapter 4 Question 65
 Part A
Tidal friction caused by Earth's stretching from the Moon's gravity is gradually slowing down the rotation of Earth. ANSWER:
  True
False
  Correct
 Prelecture Reading Question 4.12
 Part A
Approximately where is it currently high tide on Earth? ANSWER:
   https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898209 5/27

 10/13/2018 Assignment 4
 Correct
 Wherever it is currently noon.
Only on the portion of the Earth facing directly toward the Moon.
Anywhere that ocean water laps upon the shore.
On the portion of Earth facing directly toward the Moon and on the portion of Earth facing directly away from the Moon.
 Chapter 14 Question 5
 Part A
What is the Sun made of? ANSWER:
  70 percent hydrogen, 28 percent helium, 2 percent other elements
98 percent hydrogen, 2 percent helium and other elements
50 percent hydrogen, 25 percent helium, 25 percent other elements 100 percent hydrogen and helium
70 percent helium, 28 percent hydrogen, 2 percent other elements
     Correct
 Chapter 14 Question 8
 Part A
What is the average temperature of the surface of the Sun? ANSWER:
  6,000 K
100,000 K 10,000 K 1 million K 1,000 K
     Correct
 Chapter 14 Question 9
 Part A
    https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898209 6/27

 10/13/2018 Assignment 4
Which is closest to the temperature of the core of the Sun? ANSWER:
  10,000 K
 10 million K 100 million K 100,000 K
1 million K
    Correct
 Chapter 14 Question 11
 Part A
Which layer of the Sun do we normally see? ANSWER:
  photosphere
radiation zone chromosphere convection zone corona
     Correct
 Chapter 14 Question 12
 Part A
The core of the Sun is ANSWER:
  at the same temperature and density as the surface.
at the same temperature but denser than the surface. hotter and denser than the surface.
constantly rising to the surface through convection. composed of iron.
     Correct
 Chapter 14 Question 45
https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898209 7/27

 10/13/2018 Assignment 4
 Part A
Nuclear power plants on Earth create energy in the same way as the Sun. ANSWER:
  True
False
  Correct
 Chapter 14 Question 50
 Part A
The core of the Sun is at a temperature of about 20,000 K. ANSWER:
  True
False
  Correct
 Prelecture Reading Question 14.04
 Part A
The source of energy that keeps the Sun shining today is _________. ANSWER:
  nuclear fusion
gravitational contraction chemical reactions (fire) nuclear fission
    Correct
 Problem 14.31
Choose the best answer.
 Part A
Which of these layers of the Sun is coolest? ANSWER:
https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898209 8/27

 10/13/2018 Assignment 4
  Correct
core
radiation zone photosphere
 Chapter 14 Question 14
 Part A
Why do sunspots appear dark in pictures of the Sun? ANSWER:
  They actually are fairly bright but appear dark against the even brighter background of the surrounding Sun.
They are holes in the solar surface through which we can see to deeper, darker layers of the Sun. They emit light in other wavelengths that we can't see.
They are too cold to emit any visible light.
They are tiny black holes, absorbing all light that hits them.
     Correct
 Chapter 14 Question 15
 Part A
Sunspots are cooler than the surrounding solar surface because ANSWER:
  strong magnetic fields slow convection and prevent hot plasma from entering the region.
magnetic fields trap ionized gases that absorb light.
there is less fusion occurring there.
they are regions where convection carries cooler material downward.
magnetic fields lift material from the surface of the Sun, cooling off the material faster.
     Correct
 Prelecture Reading Question 14.01
 Part A
According to modern science, approximately how old is the Sun? ANSWER:
   https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898209 9/27

 10/13/2018 Assignment 4
  Correct
25 million years
400 million years 10,000 years
4.5 billion years
 Chapter 14 Question 16
 Part A
How does the Sun generate energy today? ANSWER:
  nuclear fusion
chemical reactions gradually expanding in size gravitational contraction nuclear fission
     Correct
 Chapter 14 Question 17
 Part A
How do human­built nuclear power plants on Earth generate energy? ANSWER:
 converting kinetic energy into electricity
chemical reactions
converting gravitational potential energy into electricity nuclear fusion
nuclear fission
      Correct
 Chapter 14 Question 19
 Part A
    https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898209 10/27

 10/13/2018 Assignment 4
At the center of the Sun, fusion converts hydrogen into ANSWER:
  plasma.
 radioactive elements like uranium and plutonium. helium, energy, and neutrinos.
hydrogen compounds.
radiation and elements like carbon and nitrogen.
    Correct
 Chapter 14 Question 30
 Part A
Why are neutrinos so difficult to detect? ANSWER:
  because they rarely interact with matter
because they move at nearly the speed of light because there are so rare
because they are so small
because they have no mass
     Correct
 Chapter 14 Question 36
 Part A
What is granulation in the Sun? ANSWER:
  dust particles in the Sun that haven't been turned into plasma
another name for the way sunspots look on the surface of the Sun
lumps of denser material in the Sun
the bubbling pattern on the photosphere produced by the underlying convection elements in the Sun other than hydrogen and helium
     Correct
 Chapter 14 Question 51
https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898209 11/27

 10/13/2018 Assignment 4
Part A
The proton­proton chain converts four hydrogen nuclei into one helium nucleus. ANSWER:
  True
False
  Correct
  Prelecture Reading Question 14.08
 Part A
The overall result of the proton­proton chain is that __________. ANSWER:
 p + p becomes 2H + energy
6 H becomes 1 He + energy
4 H becomes 1 He + energy
Individual protons are joined into long chains of protons.
     Correct
 Problem 14.43
 Part A
Choose the correct description, of how would we be able to tell, if fusion reactions in the Sun were to suddenly cease. ANSWER:
 Correct
 We would be able to tell that fusion reactions had ceased because we would no longer detect neutrinos from the Sun. Neutrinos, a by­product of nuclear fusion, exit the Sun immediately.
We would be able to tell that fusion reactions had ceased because we would no longer detect electrons from the Sun. Electrons, a by­product of nuclear fusion, exit the Sun immediately.
We would be able to tell that fusion reactions had ceased because we would no longer detect electrons from the Sun. Electrons, a main product of nuclear fusion, exit the Sun immediately.
We would not be able to tell that fusion reactions had ceased because light and particles generated by fusion take hundreds of thousands years to exit the Sun.
 Chapter 5 Question 2
    https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898209 12/27

 10/13/2018 Assignment 4
 Part A
If a material is highly opaque, then it ANSWER:
  absorbs most light.
transmits most light. reflects most light. emits most light. scatters most light.
     Correct
 Chapter 5 Question 4
 Part A
If a material is transparent, then it ANSWER:
  absorbs light well.
reflects light well. transmits light well. emits light well. scatters light well.
     Correct
 Chapter 5 Question 5 ­ Copy
 Part A
Grass appears green because ANSWER:
  it emits green light and absorbs other colors.
it transmits green light and emits other colors. it absorbs green light and emits other colors.
it scatters green light and absorbs other colors.
    Correct
 Chapter 5 Question 6
https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898209 13/27

 10/13/2018 Assignment 4
 Part A
Everything looks red through a red filter because ANSWER:
  the filter reflects red light and transmits other colors.
the filter absorbs red light and emits other colors. the filter transmits red light and absorbs other colors. the filter emits red light and absorbs other colors.
    Correct
 Prelecture Reading Question 5.02 ­ Copy
 Part A
Suppose you watch a leaf bobbing up and down as ripples pass it by in a pond. You notice that it does two full up and down bobs each second. Which statement is true of the ripples on the pond?
ANSWER:
  They have a frequency of 4 peaks per second.
We can calculate the wavelength of the ripples from their frequency. They have a wavelength of two cycles per second.
They have a frequency of 2 peaks per second.
    Correct
 Prelecture Reading Question 5.03
 Part A
Suppose you know the frequency of a photon and the speed of light. What else can you determine about the photon? ANSWER:
  its acceleration
its temperature
the chemical composition of the object that emitted it its wavelength and energy
    Correct
 Problem 5.27 ­ Copy
Choose the best answer.
https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898209 14/27

 10/13/2018 Assignment 4
 Part A
Why is a sunflower yellow? ANSWER:
  It emits yellow light.
It absorbs yellow light. It scatters yellow light.
   Correct
 Sorting Task: Interaction of Light and Matter
 Part A
Listed following are various physical situations that describe how light interacts with matter. Match these to the appropriate category.
ANSWER:
 Hint 1. Understand the four ways light interacts with matter
The four categories into which you must sort items in this task represent the four basic ways in which light can interact with matter. 1. Emission: The process in which light is produced by an object, rather than simply being reflected by an object. For example, the Sun emits its own light. 2. Absorption: The process in which an object absorbs light, causing the object to warm up. For example, your hand absorbs some of the light from the Sun, which is why you are warmer in the Sun than in the shade. 3. Transmission: The process in which light passes through (is transmitted by) a transparent object, such as a piece of clear glass. Light is also transmitted through air, which is why we don’t see the air. 4. Reflection or scattering: The process in which light bounces off matter so that it is sent in a new direction. A mirror reflects light in a precise way, but most objects scatter light into many directions. For example, we can see each other in the daytime because of light scattered by our bodies and clothes. We cannot see each other in the dark, because we do not emit any visible light. Once you understand these four processes, you should be able to complete this sorting task.
Hint 2. Why is grass green in daylight?
A well­kept grass lawn is green because __________. ANSWER:
Hint 3. What is the difference between black and white?
On a hot sunny day, you will be cooler in a white t­shirt than a black t­shirt because __________. ANSWER:
  the grass absorbs green light but reflects other colors
the grass reflects green light but absorbs other colors the grass transmits green light but absorbs other colors the grass emits only green light
    the black shirt absorbs all colors of sunlight, while the white shirt reflects all colors
the black shirt reflects all colors of sunlight, while the white shirt absorbs all colors the black shirt reflects only black light, while the white shirt reflects all colors
   https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898209 15/27

 10/13/2018 Assignment 4
 Correct
    Reset
Help
                                         Transmission
    Cell phone signals pass through walls.
    Visible light meets clear glass.
    Absorption
    Blue light hits a red sweatshirt.
     Visible light does not pass through a black wall.
   Reflection or scattering
    Red light hits a red sweatshirt.
     White light hits a white piece of paper.
   Emission
    Light comes from your computer screen.
    Light comes from a light bulb.
           Chapter 5 Question 8 ­ Copy
 Part A
The frequency of a wave is ANSWER:
  equal to the speed of the wave divided by the wavelength of the wave.
measured in cycles per second.
the number of peaks passing by any point each second. all of the above
    Correct
 Chapter 5 Question 9
 Part A
The wavelength of a wave is ANSWER:
https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898209 16/27

 10/13/2018 Assignment 4
  Correct
the distance between where the wave is emitted and where it is absorbed.
the distance between a peak of the wave and the next trough. the distance between two adjacent peaks of the wave.
equal to the speed of the wave times the wave's frequency. how strong the wave is.
 Chapter 5 Question 11
 Part A
From lowest energy to highest energy, which of the following correctly orders the different categories of electromagnetic radiation? ANSWER:
  radio, X rays, visible light, ultraviolet, infrared, gamma rays
radio, infrared, visible light, ultraviolet, X rays, gamma rays visible light, infrared, X rays, ultraviolet, gamma rays, radio infrared, visible light, ultraviolet, X rays, gamma rays, radio gamma rays, X rays, visible light, ultraviolet, infrared, radio
     Correct
 Chapter 5 Question 14
 Part A
Which of the following statements about X rays and radio waves is not true? ANSWER:
  X rays have higher frequency than radio waves.
X rays have shorter wavelengths than radio waves.
X rays and radio waves are both forms of light, or electromagnetic radiation. Neither X rays nor radio waves can penetrate the earth's atmosphere.
X rays have higher energy than radio waves.
     Correct
 Chapter 5 Question 15
     https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898209 17/27

 10/13/2018 Assignment 4
 Part A
We can see each other in the classroom right now because we ANSWER:
  emit infrared light.
reflect infrared light. reflect visible light. emit visible light.
emit thermal radiation.
     Correct
 Chapter 5 Question 63
 Part A
The shorter the wavelength of light, the higher its frequency. ANSWER:
  True
False
  Correct
 Chapter 5 Question 64
 Part A
The greater the wavelength of light, the greater its energy. ANSWER:
  True
False
  Correct
 Chapter 5 Question 65
 Part A
X rays, because they have more energy, travel through space faster than visible light. ANSWER:
https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898209 18/27

 10/13/2018 Assignment 4
  Correct
True
False
 Chapter 5 Question 67
 Part A
You are currently emitting electromagnetic waves. ANSWER:
  True
False
  Correct
 Prelecture Narrated Figure: The Electromagnetic Spectrum
First, launch the video below. Then, close the video window and answer the questions at right. You can watch the video again at any point.
   Part A
Which of the following are forms of light (electromagnetic radiation)?
Select all that apply.
ANSWER:
  radio waves
infrared
X rays visible light microwaves gamma rays ultraviolet
         https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898209 19/27

  10/13/2018 Assignment 4
 Correct
As explained in your textbook and the video, light is an electromagnetic wave that travels at the speed of light. Therefore all the regions of the electromagnetic spectrum can be thought of as different forms of light.
Part B
Red light has a _____ wavelength and a _____ frequency than does blue light. ANSWER:
  longer, lower
shorter, lower longer, higher shorter, higher
       Correct
Red light has a wavelength of about 700 nm, which is longer than the 400­nm wavelength of blue light. As explained in the video, longer wavelength means lower frequency for light.
Part C
X ray photons have a _____ wavelength, _____ frequency, and _____ energy than do ultraviolet photons. ANSWER:
  shorter, higher, lower
longer, lower, lower longer, lower, higher shorter, lower, higher longer, higher, higher shorter, higher, higher
        Correct
X rays have shorter wavelengths than ultraviolet light, and as shown in the video, shorter wavelength means higher frequency and photons with higher energy.
Part D
If you have a telescope that is observing light with wavelengths of a few meters, you are observing __________. ANSWER:
  ultraviolet light
radio waves visible light gamma rays X rays infrared light
      https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898209 20/27

 10/13/2018 Assignment 4
 Correct
As you can see by looking at the wavelength scale that goes with the electromagnetic spectrum, all wavelengths longer than about a millimeter — which therefore includes wavelengths of a few meters — are called radio waves.
Part E
Suppose that you had “X­ray vision” that allowed you to see X rays. What would you notice when you looked at a friend standing near you that you could not notice with your visible light vision alone?
ANSWER:
 you could see color of your friend’s underwear
nothing
you could see your friend’s internal muscles but not bones you could see your friend’s internal bone structure
       Correct
As shown in the figure and video, people emit infrared light but we do not emit X­rays — which is a good thing, because X rays can be harmful. So X­ray vision would be useless when looking at other people, since there would be nothing to see.
 Prelecture Reading Question 5.01
 Part A
Which forms of light are lower in energy and frequency than the light that our eyes can see? ANSWER:
  infrared and ultraviolet
infrared and radio ultraviolet and X ray visible light
    Correct
 Prelecture Reading Question 5.04
 Part A
Which of the following best describes the fundamental difference between two different chemical elements (such as oxygen and carbon)? ANSWER:
  They have different numbers of protons in their nucleus.
They have different names.
They have different atomic mass numbers. They have different numbers of electrons.
     https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898209 21/27

 10/13/2018 Assignment 4
Correct
 Problem 5.28
  Part A
Compared to red light, blue light has higher frequency and ANSWER:
  higher energy and shorter wavelength than red light.
higher energy and longer wavelength than red light. lower energy and shorter wavelength than red light.
   Correct
 Problem 5.29
Choose the best answer.
 Part A
Radio waves are: ANSWER:
  a form of sound.
a form of light.
a type of spectrum.
   Correct
 Ranking Task: The Electromagnetic Spectrum
Learning Goal:
To understand how the major forms of light differ in wavelength, frequency, and energy.
Introduction. The complete range of all possible forms of light is called the electromagnetic spectrum, so­named because light carries both electric and magnetic fields. Recall that light behaves as both a particle and a wave; we say that light comes in particle­like "pieces" called photons, but that each photon is characterized by a wavelength and a frequency.
 Part A
We divide the electromagnetic spectrum into six major categories of light, listed below. Rank these forms of light from left to right in order of increasing wavelength. To rank items as equivalent, overlap them.
 ANSWER:
Hint 1. The wavelength of radio waves
Any light wave with a wavelength longer than 1 is considered a radio wave. This fact should help you place radio waves correctly in Part A.
https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898209 22/27
retemillim

 10/13/2018 Assignment 4
   Reset
Help
                                  Shortest wavelength Longest wavelength
gamma rays X rays ultraviolet visible light infrared radio waves
                                Correct
Notice that these wavelengths span an enormous range. The wavelengths of gamma rays can be smaller than the size of an atomic nucleus, while the wavelengths of radio waves can be many meters (or even kilometers) long. Visible light spans only a very narrow range of wavelengths, from about 400 at the blue (violet) end to about 700 at the red end.
Part B
Rank the forms of light from left to right in order of increasing frequency. To rank items as equivalent, overlap them.
 ANSWER:
 Hint 1. What is the mathematical relationship between frequency and wavelength?
The mathematical relationship between wavelength and frequency for any light wave is wavelength frequency = speed of light
Therefore, __________. ANSWER:
  the longer the wavelength, the lower the frequency
the longer the wavelength, the higher the frequency
 https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898209 23/27
sretemonan
sretemonan
×

 10/13/2018 Assignment 4
   Reset
Help
                                  Lowest frequency Highest frequency
radio waves infrared visible light ultraviolet X rays gamma rays
                                Correct
Notice that the frequency order is the opposite of the wavelength order from Part A. You can understand why if you recall that wavelength times frequency always equals the speed of light. Because the speed of light is a constant, longer wavelengths must mean lower frequencies, and vice versa.
Part C
Rank the forms of light from left to right in order of increasing energy. To rank items as equivalent, overlap them.
 ANSWER:
 Hint 1. What is the mathematical relationship between frequency and energy?
The mathematical relationship between frequency and energy for any light wave is
energy = Planck's constant frequency
Therefore, __________. ANSWER:
  the higher the frequency, the lower the energy
energy depends on both frequency and the speed of light the higher the frequency, the higher the energy
  https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898209 24/27
×

 10/13/2018 Assignment 4
   Reset
Help
                                 Lowest energy Highest energy
radio waves infrared visible light ultraviolet X rays gamma rays
                                Correct
Notice that the energy order is the same as the frequency order from Part B, which means it is opposite the wavelength order from Part A. The reason is that the energy of a photon of light is proportional to its frequency:
energy = Planck's constant frequency
Part D
Rank the forms of light from left to right in order of increasing speed. To rank items as equivalent, overlap them.
 ANSWER:
 Hint 1. What do we mean by the "speed of light"?
We say that the speed of light is 300,000 . What we really mean is that this is the speed of __________ through space. ANSWER:
  only the fastest light waves
all forms of light only visible light
  https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898209 25/27
×
dnoces rep sretemolik

 10/13/2018 Assignment 4
   Reset
Help
                                  Lowest speed Highest speed
    gamma rays
     infrared
     ultraviolet
     X rays
     visible light
     radio waves
   Correct
The speed of light is a constant (in empty space) for all forms of light, meaning that all forms of light travel at the same speed, regardless of wavelength, frequency, or energy.
Chapter 5 Question 43
  Part A
Which of the following objects is not a close approximation of a thermal emitter? ANSWER:
  a filament in a light bulb
a planet hot, thin gas a star
you
     Correct
 Chapter 5 Question 47
 Part A
Which of the following statements about thermal radiation is always true? ANSWER:
https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898209 26/27

 10/13/2018 Assignment 4
  Correct
Score Summary:
Your score on this assignment is 96.5%.
You received 56.95 out of a possible total of 59 points.
A hot object emits photons with a longer wavelength than a cool object.
A hot object emits more radio waves than a cool object.
A hot object emits photons with a higher average energy than a cool object. A hot object emits more X rays than a cool object.
     https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898209 27/27

 10/21/2018
Assignment 5
Due: 9:00am on Monday, October 22, 2018
You will receive no credit for items you complete after the assignment is due. Grading Policy Chapter 5 Question 19
Part A
Compared to the volume of its nucleus, the volume of an atom is about ANSWER:
Assignment 5
     a million times greater.
a trillion times greater. the same.
a billion times greater.
a thousand times greater.
     Correct
 Chapter 5 Question 71
Part A
The atomic nuclei of the same element always have the same number of protons. ANSWER:
Chapter 5 Question 72
Part A
The atomic nuclei of the same element always have the same number of neutrons. ANSWER:
Chapter 5 Question 73
   True
False
  Correct
    True
False
  Correct
 https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898279 1/14

 10/21/2018
Assignment 5
 Part A
The energy levels for electrons vary from one element to another. ANSWER:
Problem 5.30
Part A
Choose the correct statement about an atomic nucleus, compared to an atom as a whole. ANSWER:
  True
False
  Correct
    The nucleus is very tiny and has very little mass.
The nucleus is very tiny but has most of the mass. The nucleus is quite large and has most of the mass.
   Correct
 Prelecture Reading Question 5.08
Part A
According to the laws of thermal radiation, hotter objects emit photons with _________. ANSWER:
   a lower average frequency
a lower average energy
a higher average speed
a shorter average wavelength
    Correct
 Prelecture Reading Question 5.09
Part A
Suppose you want to know the chemical composition of a distant star. Which piece of information is most useful to you? ANSWER:
 https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898279 2/14

 10/21/2018
Assignment 5
 whether the star's spectrum has more emission lines or more absorption lines
the peak energy of the star's thermal radiation
the Doppler shift of the star's spectrum
the wavelengths of spectral lines in the star's spectrum
     Correct
 Problem 5.33
Choose the best answer.
Part A
If you heat a rock until it glows, its spectrum will be: ANSWER:
Problem 5.34
Choose the best answer.
Part A
The set of spectral lines that we see in a star's spectrum depends on the star's: ANSWER:
   a thermal radiation spectrum.
an absorption line spectrum. an emission line spectrum.
   Correct
      atomic structure.
chemical composition. rotation rate.
 Correct
 Problem 5.35
Choose the best answer.
 Part A
Compared to the Sun, a star whose spectrum peaks in the infrared is: ANSWER:
 https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898279 3/14

 10/21/2018 Assignment 5
  Correct
cooler
hotter larger
 Chapter 5 Question 51
 Part A
The spectra of most galaxies show redshifts. This means that their spectral lines ANSWER:
 have wavelengths that are longer than normal.
have wavelengths that are shorter than normal.
have normal wavelengths, but absorption of light makes them appear red. always are in the red part of the visible spectrum.
have a higher intensity in the red part of the spectrum.
      Correct
 Chapter 5 Question 52
 Part A
From laboratory measurements, we know that a particular spectral line formed by hydrogen appears at a wavelength of 486.1 nanometers (nm). The spectrum of a particular star shows the same hydrogen line appearing at a wavelength of 485.9 nm. What can we conclude?
ANSWER:
  The star is moving toward us.
The star is moving away from us. The star is getting hotter.
The "star" actually is a planet. The star is getting colder.
     Correct
 Chapter 5 Question 53
 Part A
   https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898279 4/14

 10/21/2018 Assignment 5
From laboratory measurements, we know that a particular spectral line formed by hydrogen appears at a wavelength of 121.6 nanometers (nm). The spectrum of a particular star shows the same hydrogen line appearing at a wavelength of 121.8 nm. What can we conclude?
ANSWER:
  The star is getting hotter.
The star is moving away from us. The star is moving toward us. The star is getting colder.
The "star" actually is a planet.
     Correct
 Chapter 5 Question 55
 Part A
You observe a distant galaxy. You find that a spectral line normally found in the visible part of the spectrum is shifted toward the infrared. What do you conclude?
ANSWER:
  The galaxy is moving away from you.
The galaxy is moving toward you.
The galaxy is made purely of hydrogen. The galaxy has very weak gravity.
The composition of the galaxy is changing.
     Correct
 Chapter 5 Question 56
 Part A
If one object has a large redshift and another object has a small redshift, what can we conclude about these two objects? ANSWER:
  The one with the large redshift is hotter and therefore is putting out more radiation.
The one with the large redshift is redder than the other one.
The one with the large redshift is moving away from us faster than the one with the small redshift.
The one with the large redshift is moving away from us, and the one with the small redshift is moving toward us. The one with the large redshift is moving toward us faster than the one with the small redshift.
     Correct
https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898279 5/14

 10/21/2018 Assignment 5
 Chapter 5 Question 76
 Part A
Any object moving relative to Earth will have a Doppler shift. ANSWER:
  True
False
  Correct
 Problem 5.26
If a distant galaxy has a substantial redshift (as viewed from our galaxy), then anyone living in that galaxy would see a substantial redshift in a spectrum of the Milky Way Galaxy.
 Part A
Choose the correct explanation why the statement makes sense (or is clearly true) or does not make sense (or is clearly false). ANSWER:
 Correct
 This statement makes sense. The redshift means that we see the galaxy moving to us, so observers in that galaxy must also see us moving to them—which means they see us redshifted as well.
This statement doesn't make sense. The redshift means that we see the galaxy moving to us, so observers in that galaxy must see us moving away from them—which means they don't see us redshifted.
This statement doesn't make sense. The redshift means that we see the galaxy moving away from us, so observers in that galaxy must see us moving to them—which means they don't see us redshifted.
This statement makes sense. The redshift means that we see the galaxy moving away from us, so observers in that galaxy must also see us moving away from them—which means they see us redshifted as well.
 Problem 5.36
Choose the best answer.
 Part A
A spectral line that appears at a wavelength of 321 in the laboratory appears at a wavelength of 328 in the spectrum of a distant object. We say that the object’s spectrum is:
ANSWER:
  redshifted.
blueshifted. whiteshifted.
   Correct
    https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898279 6/14
mn mn

  10/21/2018 Assignment 5
 Ranking Task: Doppler Shift of Light
 Part A
The diagrams below each show the motion of a distant star relative to Earth (not to scale). The red arrows indicate the speed and direction of the star’s motion: Longer arrows mean faster speed. Rank the stars based on the Doppler shift that we would detect on Earth, from largest blueshift, through no shift, to largest redshift.
ANSWER:
  Hint 1. What is a Doppler shift?
For a star (or other astronomical object), a Doppler shift is a shift in the wavelength of spectral lines in an object’s spectrum. The amount of this shift
is a measure of the object’s __________. ANSWER:
Hint 2. What determines whether a Doppler shift is toward the blue or the red?
When an object’s spectral lines are shifted from their rest wavelengths to longer wavelengths, we say that the object’s spectrum shows a redshift. When the lines are shifted to shorter wavelengths, we say that the object’s spectrum shows a blueshift. Which statement about a blueshift and a redshift is true?
ANSWER:
  total speed
speed toward or away from Earth speed across our line of sight
    A spectrum shows a blueshift when the object’s speed is slow and a redshift when its speed is fast.
A spectrum shows a redshift when the object’s speed is slow and a blueshift when its speed is fast.
A spectrum shows a blueshift when the object is moving toward us and a redshift when it is moving away from us. A spectrum shows a redshift when the object is moving toward us and a blueshift when it is moving away from us.
      Reset
Help
                            Largest blueshift Largest redshift
                               https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898279 7/14

 10/21/2018 Assignment 5
 Correct
As your correct answer indicates, the star moving fastest toward Earth will have the greatest blueshift, the star moving across our line of sight will have no shift at all, and the star moving fastest away from us will have the greatest redshift.
Part B
Each diagram below shows a pair of spectra with a set of spectral lines. The top spectrum always shows the lines as they appear in a spectrum created in a laboratory on Earth (“Lab”) and the bottom spectrum shows the same set of lines from a distant star. The left (blue/violet) end of each spectrum corresponds to shorter wavelengths and the right (red) end to longer wavelengths. Rank the five stars based on the Doppler shifts of their spectra, from largest blueshift, through no shift, to largest redshift.
ANSWER:
   Hint 1. How can we use spectra to determine the size of the Doppler shift?
For the diagrams given in Part B, how can you tell whether a star has a blueshift or a redshift? ANSWER:
 Count the number of spectral lines on the blue and red ends of the spectrum: If there are more lines on the red end it is a redshift, and if there are more lines on the blue end it is a blueshift.
Focus on the pair of lines near the right (red): If the star has this pair farther to the right than the Lab spectrum, then it is a redshift; if the star has this pair to the left of the Lab spectrum, it is a blueshift.
Look for the line that is farthest to the left in the star’s spectrum: If it is in the violet part of the spectrum, then the star has a redshift; if it is in the blue part of the spectrum, then it has a blueshift.
      Reset
Help
                            Largest blueshift Largest redshift
                                Correct
As your answer correctly indicates, lines that are shifted to the left (toward the blue/violet) compared to the laboratory spectrum represent blue shifts, and lines shifted to the right (toward the red) represent redshifts.
 Part C
An important line of hydrogen occurs at a rest wavelength (as measured in a laboratory) of 656 (a nanometer ( ) is a billionth of a meter). Each diagram below has this line labeled with its wavelength in the spectrum of a distant star. Rank the motion of the stars along our line of sight (radial motion)
https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898279 8/14
mn mn

  10/21/2018 Assignment 5
based on their speed and direction, from moving fastest toward Earth, through zero (not moving toward or away from Earth), to moving fastest away from Earth.
ANSWER:
  Hint 1. How is the line in the spectrum used to determine a star’s motion?
Consider a spectral line with a rest wavelength of 750 . In the spectrum of Star A, the line is shifted to 751 . In the spectrum of Star B, the
line is shifted to 749 . Which statement is true? ANSWER:
  Star A is moving toward us and Star B is moving away from us.
Star A is moving away from us and Star B is moving toward us. Both stars are moving away from us, but Star A is moving faster. Both stars are moving toward us, but Star A is moving faster. Both stars are moving toward us, but Star B is moving faster.
    Hint 2. What determines whether a Doppler shift is toward the blue or the red?
When on object’s spectral lines are shifted from their rest wavelengths to longer wavelengths, we say that the object’s spectrum shows a redshift. When the lines are shifted to shorter wavelengths, we say that the object’s spectrum shows a blueshift. Which statement about a blueshift and a redshift is true?
ANSWER:
  A spectrum shows a blueshift when the object’s speed is slow and a redshift when its speed is fast.
A spectrum shows a redshift when the object’s speed is slow and a blueshift when its speed is fast.
A spectrum shows a blueshift when the object is moving toward us and a redshift when it is moving away from us. A spectrum shows a redshift when the object is moving toward us and a blueshift when it is moving away from us.
      Reset
Help
                                                          Fastest toward Earth Fastest away from Earth
 https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898279 9/14
mn mn
mn

 10/21/2018 Assignment 5
 Correct
Notice that your correct answer ranks the stars in wavelength order. The first two stars are moving toward us, because their lines have wavelength shorter than the rest wavelength of 656 nm. The last two stars are moving away from us, because their lines have wavelength longer than the rest wavelength of 656 nm.
Process of Science: The Solar Spectrum v2
Learning Goal:
To understand the basic features of an astronomical spectrum.
Introduction. The photo shows the Sun’s visible­light spectrum. Note that this spectrum is displayed in many rows so that it fits on the screen, but in principle it could have been spread out as a single, long band from left to right.
    Part A
Which of the following procedures would allow you to make a spectrum of the Sun similar to the one shown, though with less detail?
 ANSWER:
 Compare the relative amounts of light that the Sun emits as infrared, visible light, and ultraviolet light.
Pass a narrow beam of sunlight through a prism.
Photograph the Sun through a powerful telescope.
Take a photograph of the Sun and then use image­processing software to change the Sun's shape into a long, thin strip.
     Hint 1. What is a spectrum?
A spectrum of the Sun shows __________. ANSWER:
  the Sun as it actually appears to our eyes
light from the Sun that our eyes cannot see sunlight spread out according to wavelength
   Correct
The prism bends different wavelengths of light by different amounts, causing the white light from the Sun to spread out into a rainbow of colors. Absorption features appear as dark lines against the brighter background of the spectrum.
https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898279 10/14

 10/21/2018 Assignment 5
 Part B
In the illustration of the solar spectrum, the upper left portion of the spectrum shows the __________ visible light.
ANSWER:
  brightest
shortest wavelength longest wavelength lowest speed highest speed
      Hint 1. How is wavelength related to frequency for light? Which statement is true for light?
ANSWER:
Hint 2. What color of visible light has the longest wavelength? The visible light with the longest wavelength is _____. ANSWER:
  The higher (longer) the wavelength, the higher the frequency.
The higher (longer) the wavelength, the lower the frequency.
   white
red blue
   Correct
Red light is the longest wavelength visible light, and longer wavelength means lower frequency (because ).
 Part C
Which of the following best describes why the Sun’s spectrum contains black lines over an underlying rainbow?
 Hint 1. Three basic types of spectra
The three basic types of astronomical spectra are
1. a continuous spectrum, which can be created by a hot, dense object;
2. an emission line spectrum, which is produced by a warm, low­density cloud of gas; and
3. an absorption line spectrum, which is produced when light from a continuous spectrum passes through cool gas.
Hint 2. Which of the three types is the Sun’s spectrum? The Sun’s spectrum is an example of a(n) __________. ANSWER:
https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898279 11/14
thgil fo deeps = ycneuqerf × htgnelevaw

10/21/2018 Assignment 5
    https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898279 12/14
ANSWER:
 continuous spectrum
emission line spectrum absorption line spectrum
The Sun produces a continuous rainbow of color, while the black lines are caused by imperfections in the instruments used to record the spectrum.
The Sun’s hot interior produces a continuous rainbow of color, but cooler gas at the surface absorbs light at particular wavelengths.
The rainbow colors represent emission by particular chemical elements, while the black lines represent gaps where no element can emit light. The Sun produces a continuous rainbow of color, while the black lines are caused by atoms and molecules in Earth's atmosphere.
Correct
The Sun’s spectrum is an absorption line spectrum, which is produced when continuous light from a hot source (the Sun’s interior) passes through a cooler cloud of gas (the gas that makes up the Sun’s visible surface).
Part D
Notice that the Sun’s spectrum appears brightest (or most intense) in the yellow­green region. This fact tells us __________.
ANSWER:
   the approximate temperature of the Sun’s surface
that the Sun should appear yellow­green to our eyes
that the Sun’s surface consists of a layer of cooler gas above a hotter interior the chemical composition of the Sun
    Hint 1. The two laws of thermal radiation
Any dense object like the Sun emits thermal radiation that is characteristic of its temperature. The two laws of thermal radiation state the following:
1. Hotter objects emit more light (per unit area) at all wavelengths.
2. The peak wavelength of the emitted light is shorter (higher energy) for hotter objects.
Correct
One of the two laws of thermal radiation (Wien’s law) states that the peak wavelength of a spectrum is directly related to an object’s temperature. A peak at yellow­green wavelengths corresponds to a temperature of about 5800 K.
 Part E
Suppose we want to know what the Sun is made of. What should we do?
 Hint 1. How are spectral lines produced?
A spectral line is produced when __________. ANSWER:
         
10/21/2018 Assignment 5
  https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898279 13/14
 ANSWER:
  Compare the wavelengths of lines in the Sun’s spectrum to the wavelengths of lines produced by chemical elements in the laboratory.
Precisely measure the intensity of light in each of the black lines in the spectrum.
Count the total number of black lines in the Sun’s spectrum.
Find the precise wavelength at which the background rainbow of color peaks in brightness.
     a gas particle moves toward or away from us at a particular speed
an electron in an atom, ion, or molecule gains or loses a precise amount of energy an object heats up
Correct
Each chemical element (or ion or molecule) produces a unique set of spectral lines; the wavelengths of these lines can be measured in the laboratory. If the Sun's spectrum contains the set of lines for some particular element, we conclude that the Sun contains that element. We determine the Sun’s overall chemical composition by examining all the lines in its spectrum.
Part F
Any spectrum can be displayed either in photographic form as shown to the left or as a graph. Which of the following graphs could represent a portion of the Sun’s visible light spectrum?
ANSWER:
         Hint 1. How emission lines and absorption lines differ
An emission line appears as a bright line in a spectrum and is produced by many photons of the same wavelength or energy; these photons have a
particular energy because they come from a particular electron transition in a particular atom (or ion or molecule).
An absorption line appears as a dark line in a spectrum and is created when many photons of the same wavelength are absorbed on their way to Earth, so that light of this wavelength appears to be "missing" from an otherwise continuous light spectrum.
Correct
The smooth part of the curve represents the graph of the background rainbow of color; the dips in the curve represent the black lines where light is missing from the rainbow.
 Prelecture Reading Question 16.04
 Part A
     
 10/21/2018 Assignment 5
 What kind of gas cloud is most likely to give birth to stars? ANSWER:
Score Summary:
Your score on this assignment is 99.1%.
You received 26.75 out of a possible total of 27 points.
  a cold, dense gas cloud
 a cold, low­density gas cloud a hot, low­density gas cloud a hot, dense gas cloud
   Correct
https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898279 14/14

 2018/11/4 Assignment 6
Assignment 6
Due: 9:00am on Monday, October 29, 2018
You will receive no credit for items you complete after the assignment is due. Grading Policy
  Chapter 8 Question 2
 Part A
Where did the elements heavier than hydrogen and helium come from? ANSWER:
 They were produced in the Big Bang.
They evolved from hydrogen and helium shortly after the Big Bang. They were produced inside stars.
They were produced inside dense interstellar gas.
all of the above
      Correct
 Chapter 8 Question 41
 Part A
Nebular theory predicts that other solar systems that formed in the same way should also have 8 planets. ANSWER:
 True
False
   Correct
 Prelecture Reading Question 8.01
 Part A
In essence, the nebular theory holds that _________. ANSWER:
 the planets each formed from the collapse of its own separate nebula
nebulae are clouds of gas and dust in space
our solar system formed from the collapse of an interstellar cloud of gas and dust
The nebular theory is a discarded idea that imagined planets forming as a result of a near-collision between our Sun and another star.
     Correct
https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898217 1/16

 2018/11/4 Assignment 6
 Prelecture Reading Question 8.02
 Part A
According to our theory of solar system formation, what three major changes occurred in the solar nebula as it shrank in size? ANSWER:
  Correct
It got hotter, its rate of rotation increased, and it flattened into a disk.
Its gas clumped up to form the terrestrial planets, nuclear fusion produced heavy elements to make the jovian planets, and central temperatures rose to more than a trillion Kelvin.
Its mass did NOT increase.
Its mass, temperature, and density all increased.
     Problem 8.25
Choose the best answer.
 Part A
How many of the planets orbit the Sun in the same direction that Earth does? ANSWER:
 a few
most all
    Correct
 Chapter 8 Question 4
 Part A
Why did the solar nebula flatten into a disk? ANSWER:
 The force of gravity from the Sun pulled the material downward into a flat disk.
The force of gravity from the planets pulled the material downward into a flat disk.
The interstellar cloud from which the solar nebula formed was originally somewhat flat.
It flattened as a natural consequence of collisions between particles in the spinning nebula, changing random motions into more orderly ones. As the nebula cooled, the gas and dust settled onto a disk.
      Correct
https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898217 2/16

 2018/11/4 Assignment 6
 Chapter 8 Question 11
 Part A
What was the frost line of the solar system? ANSWER:
 Correct
 the distance from the Sun where temperatures were low enough for asteroids to form, between the present-day orbits of Venus and Earth
the distance from the Sun where temperatures were low enough for metals to condense, between the Sun and the present-day orbit of Mercury
the distance from the Sun where temperatures were low enough for hydrogen and helium to condense, between the present-day orbits of Jupiter and Saturn
the distance from the Sun where temperatures were low enough for hydrogen compounds to condense into ices, between the present-day orbits of Mars and Jupiter
the distance from the Sun where temperatures were low enough for rocks to condense, between the present-day orbits of Mercury and Venus
      Chapter 8 Question 12
 Part A
Why are the inner planets made of denser materials than the outer planets? ANSWER:
 Correct
 In the inner part of the nebula only metals and rocks were able to condense because of the high temperatures, whereas hydrogen compounds, although more abundant, were only able to condense in the cooler outer regions.
The Sun's gravity pulled denser materials toward the inner part of the solar nebula, while lighter gases escaped more easily.
In the beginning, when the protoplanetary disk was spinning faster, centrifugal forces flung the lighter materials toward the outer parts of the solar nebula.
Denser materials were heavier and sank to the center of the nebula.
When the solar nebula formed a disk, materials naturally segregated into bands, and in our particular solar system the denser materials settled nearer the Sun while lighter materials are found in the outer part.
      Chapter 8 Question 13
 Part A
Which of the following is the origin of almost all the large moons around the jovian planets? ANSWER:
https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898217 3/16

 2018/11/4 Assignment 6
  Correct
They are captured asteroids.
 They were formed by giant impacts.
They are captured comets.
They are captured planets.
They were formed by condensation and accretion in a disk of gas around the planet.
     Chapter 8 Question 20
 Part A
According to the nebular theory, what are asteroids and comets? ANSWER:
 They are chunks of rock or ice that were expelled from planets by volcanoes.
They are chunks of rock or ice that condensed long after the planets and moons had formed. They are leftover planetesimals that never accreted into planets.
They are the shattered remains of collisions between planets.
They are the shattered remains of collisions between moons.
      Correct
 Chapter 8 Question 22
 Part A
According to our theory of solar system formation, why do we find some exceptions to the general rules and patterns of the planets? ANSWER:
 The exceptions probably represent objects that were captured by our solar system from interstellar space.
Our theory is not quite correct because it cannot explain these exceptions.
The exceptions probably represent objects that formed recently, rather than early in the history of the solar system. Most of the exceptions are the result of giant impacts.
The exceptions exist because, even though our theory is as correct as possible, nature never follows rules precisely.
      Correct
 Chapter 8 Question 25
https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898217 4/16

 2018/11/4 Assignment 6
 Part A
Which of the following is not evidence supporting the giant impact theory for the formation of the Moon? ANSWER:
 Computer simulations show that the Moon could really have formed in this way.
Scientists have found several meteorites that appear to be the remains of the object that caused the giant impact. We see signatures of giant impacts on other planets.
The Moon is depleted of easily vaporized materials, as we would expect from the heat of an impact.
The composition of the Moon is similar to that of Earth's outer layers.
      Correct
 Chapter 8 Question 34
 Part A
The more massive planets in the solar system tend to be less dense than the lower mass planets. ANSWER:
 True
False
   Correct
 Chapter 8 Question 35
 Part A
Within the frost line, planetesimals were composed entirely of rock and outside the frost line planetesimals were composed entirely of ice. ANSWER:
 True
False
   Correct
 Prelecture Narrated Figure: The Formation of the Solar System
First, launch the video below. Then, close the video window and answer the questions at right. You can watch the video again at any point.
 https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898217 5/16

 2018/11/4 Assignment 6
 Part A
When did the objects that we now see as asteroids and comets form in the solar system? ANSWER:
 After the planets finished forming.
Before the cloud flattened into a disk.
After the cloud flattened into a disk but before solid particles condensed from the gas. After solid particles condensed from the gas but before the planets finished forming.
        Correct
Asteroids and comets are leftover planetesimals, and as shown in the video, planetesimals formed through the accretion of the solid particles that condensed from the nebula.
Part B
Which of the following statements was true beyond the frost line (but not interior to it)? ANSWER:
 It was so warm that only metal and rock could condense from the gas.
It was cold enough for hydrogen compounds to condense into ices. This was the only region that flattened into a disk.
No object as small as a terrestrial planet could form.
     Correct
The frost line defined the place beyond which temperatures were low enough for ices to condense from the gas.
 Part C
Which of the following is thought to explain many of the “exceptions to the rules” of our solar system? ANSWER:
 the frost line
conservation of angular momentum the solar nebula
giant impacts
the heavy bombardment
      https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898217 6/16

  2018/11/4 Assignment 6
 Correct
Giant impacts probably explain most of the exceptions, including the existence of our surprisingly large Moon and the axis tilt of Uranus.
Part D
Based on what the nebular theory tells us about the formation of our own solar system, what does the theory predict for the possibility of other planetary systems?
ANSWER:
 Planetary systems should be common.
Other planetary systems should be identical to our own. Planetary systems should be very rare.
Most stars should have one or two planets, but not more.
       Correct
The same basic processes should accompany the births of most or all stars as they form from the gravitational collapse of interstellar clouds, so we should expect planetary systems to be common. This prediction of the nebular theory has been verified by discoveries of extrasolar planets.
 Prelecture Reading Question 8.04
 Part A
What do we mean by the frost line when we discuss the formation of planets in the solar nebula? ANSWER:
  Correct
It is a circle at a particular distance from the Sun, beyond which the temperature was low enough for ices to condense.
It is another way of stating the temperature at which water freezes into ice. It is the altitude in a planet's atmosphere at which snow can form.
It marks the special distance from the Sun at which hydrogen compounds become abundant; closer to the Sun, there are no hydrogen compounds.
     Prelecture Reading Question 8.06
 Part A
What is the giant impact hypothesis for the origin of the Moon? ANSWER:
 The Moon formed from material blasted out of Earth's mantle and crust by the impact of a Mars-size object.
The Moon formed when two gigantic asteroids collided with one another.
The Moon originally was about the same size as Earth, but a giant impact blasted most of it away so that it ended up much smaller than Earth. The Moon formed just like Earth, from accretion in the solar nebula.
    https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898217 7/16

 2018/11/4 Assignment 6
Correct
 Problem 8.28
Choose the best answer.
  Part A
Which of the following did not occur during the collapse of the solar nebula? ANSWER:
 spinning faster
heating up
concentrating denser materials nearer the Sun
    Correct
 Sorting Task: Formation of Terrestrial and Jovian Planets
 Part A
Each of the following statements applies either to the formation of terrestrial planets or of jovian planets (but not both), based on our current theory of solar system formation. Drag the statements into the appropriate bin.
ANSWER:
 Hint 1. List of terrestrial planets
The terrestrial planets are Mercury, Venus, Earth, and Mars. They are the planets of the inner solar system, made mostly of metal and rock.
Hint 2. List of jovian planets
The jovian planets are Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus, and Neptune. They are the planets found in the outer solar system, made mostly of hydrogen,
helium, and hydrogen compounds, along with metal and rock.
Hint 3. Did orbital speeds vary in the solar nebula? ANSWER:
 Orbital speeds in the solar nebula __________.
were everywhere the same
obeyed Kepler’s third law and hence were faster in the inner regions and slower at greater distances were faster at greater distances
   https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898217 8/16

 2018/11/4 Assignment 6
 Correct
   Reset
Help
                                      Terrestrial Planets
   surfaces dramatically altered during the heavy bombardment
      accreted from planetesimals of rock and metal
     Jovian Planets
        large moons formed in surrounding disks of material
ejected icy planetesimals that are now Oort cloud comets
      formed in a region of the solar system with lower orbital speeds
    formed in regions cold enough for water to freeze
      accreted from icy planetesimals
   Chapter 8 Question 30
 Part A
What do meteorites reveal about the solar system? ANSWER:
 They reveal that the solar system once contained 10 planets.
Nothing, because they come from other star systems.
They reveal that the age of the solar system is approximately 4.6 billion years.
They reveal that meteorites are much older than the comets and planets.
They reveal that the early solar system consisted mostly of hydrogen and helium gas.
      Correct
 Prelecture Reading Question 8.07
 Part A
Suppose you start with 1 kilogram of a radioactive substance that has a half-life of 10 years. Which of the following statements will be true after 20 years pass?
ANSWER:
https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898217 9/16

 2018/11/4 Assignment 6
  Correct
You'll have 0.25 kilogram of the radioactive substance remaining.
 You'll have 0.5 kilogram of the radioactive substance remaining. All the material will have completely decayed.
You'll have 0.75 kilogram of the radioactive substance remaining.
    Chapter 9 Question 2
 Part A
What is differentiation in planetary geology? ANSWER:
 the process by which different types of minerals form a conglomerate rock
any process by which a planet's surface evolves differently from another planet's surface
any process by which one part of a planet's surface evolves differently from another part of the same planet's surface any process by which a planet evolves differently from its moons
the process by which gravity separates materials according to density
      Correct
 Chapter 9 Question 8
 Part A
The terrestrial planet cores contain mostly metal because ANSWER:
 convection carried the metals to the core.
radioactivity created metals in the core from the decay of uranium.
the entire planets are made mostly of metal.
metals sank to the center during a time when the interiors were molten throughout. metals condensed first in the solar nebula and the rocks then accreted around them.
      Correct
 Chapter 9 Question 10
 Part A
https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898217 10/16

 2018/11/4 Assignment 6
Which internal energy source is the most important in continuing to heat the terrestrial planets today? ANSWER:
 radioactivity
 differentiation accretion
tidal heating
all of the above
     Correct
 Chapter 9 Question 9
 Part A
Which internal energy source produces heat by converting gravitational potential energy into thermal energy? ANSWER:
 accretion
differentiation radioactivity both A and B all of the above
      Correct
 Chapter 9 Question 13
 Part A
The three principal sources of internal heat of terrestrial planets are ANSWER:
 conduction, convection, and eruption.
conduction, differentiation, and accretion. convection, differentiation, and eruption. accretion, differentiation, and radioactivity. accretion, differentiation, and eruption.
      Correct
 Chapter 9 Question 17
https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898217 11/16

 2018/11/4 Assignment 6
Part A
Which of the following best describes why the smaller terrestrial worlds have cooler interiors than the larger ones? ANSWER:
 They have relatively more surface area compared to their volumes.
They had more volcanic eruptions in the past, which released their internal heat. The smaller ones are farther from the Sun.
They were cooler when they formed.
They have relatively fewer radioactive elements.
      Correct
  Problem 9.32
Choose the best answer.
 Part A
Which of a planet's fundamental properties has the greatest effect on its level of volcanic and tectonic activity? ANSWER:
 size
distance from the Sun rotation rate
    Correct
 Ranking Task: Tectonic Activity of the Terrestrial Planets
 Part A
Shown below are the four terrestrial planets of our solar system. Assume that all the planets started out equally hot inside. Rank the planets based on their expected cooling rates, from fastest cooling to slowest cooling.
ANSWER:
 Hint 1. What determines an object’s cooling rate?
Suppose you have three hot potatoes: a small one, a medium one, and a large one. Which one will be cool enough to eat first? ANSWER:
 the small one
the medium one the large one
   https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898217 12/16

 2018/11/4 Assignment 6
   Reset
Help
                                               Fastest cooling Slowest cooling
  Correct
Smaller planets cool faster than larger planets for the same reason that smaller hot potatoes cool faster than larger hot potatoes: An object’s total heat content depends on its volume, while its rate of heat loss depends on its surface area. Smaller objects have greater ratios of surface area to volume (the surface area–to–volume ratio) and therefore cool faster. Note that the differing cooling rates explain why the smallest planet, Mercury, has lost most of its interior heat by now, while the largest terrestrial planets — Venus and Earth — still are quite hot inside.
Part B
Shown following are three terrestrial planets of our solar system. Rank the planets based on the amount of time the surface of the planet has had a moderate to high level of volcanic/tectonic activity, from longest to shortest.
ANSWER:
  Hint 1. What is tectonic activity? ANSWER:
Hint 2. What characteristic allows a planet to have tectonic activity? In order to have ongoing tectonic activity, a planet must be _____. ANSWER:
  Tectonic activity is
another name for a rapidly changing rotation rate.
changes in a planet’s surface due to forces from inside the planet.
the process that gradually erases impact craters over time on a planet with an atmosphere.
   quite hot inside
quite cool inside rapidly rotating
   https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898217 13/16

 2018/11/4 Assignment 6
   Reset
Help
                                     Longest time Shortest time
  Correct
Earth still has a great deal of tectonic activity today, Mars has much less ongoing tectonic activity, and Mercury probably has very little or no ongoing tectonic activity. Note that we can trace these facts directly back to the cooling rates from Part A: Tectonic activity requires interior heat, so planets that cool faster lose their tectonic activity in a shorter time.
Chapter 9 Question 26
  Part A
The relatively few craters that we see within the lunar maria ANSWER:
 were created by the same large impactor that led to the formation of the maria.
are sinkholes that formed when sections of the maria collapsed.
are volcanic in origin, rather than from impacts.
were formed by impacts that occurred before those that formed most of the craters in the lunar highlands. were formed by impacts that occurred after those that formed most of the craters in the lunar highlands.
      Correct
 Chapter 9 Question 27
 Part A
When we see a region of a planet that is not as heavily cratered as other regions, we conclude that ANSWER:
https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898217 14/16

 2018/11/4 Assignment 6
  Correct
the surface in the region is older than the surface in more heavily cratered regions.
 the planet formed after the age of bombardment and missed out on getting hit by leftover planetesimals. the planet is rotating very slowly and only one side was hit by impactors.
there is little volcanic activity to create craters.
the surface in the region is younger than the surface in more heavily cratered regions.
     Chapter 9 Question 28
 Part A
Volcanism is more likely on a planet that ANSWER:
 doesn't have an atmosphere or oceans.
is struck often by meteors and solar system debris. is closer to the Sun.
has high internal temperatures.
     Correct
 Problem 9.35
Choose the best answer.
 Part A
What do we conclude if a planet has few impact craters of any size? ANSWER:
 The planet was never bombarded by asteroids or comets.
Its atmosphere stopped impactors of all sizes. Other geological processes have wiped out craters.
    Correct
 Chapter 9 Question 39
 Part A
How did the lunar maria form? ANSWER:
https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898217 15/16

 2018/11/4 Assignment 6
  Correct
The early bombardment created heat that melted the lunar surface in the regions of the maria.
The maria are the result of gradual erosion by micrometeorites striking the Moon.
Volatiles escaping from the Moon's interior heated and eroded the surface in the regions of the maria. Large impacts fractured the Moon's lithosphere, allowing lava to fill the impact basins.
The giant impact that created the Moon left smooth areas that we call the maria.
      Chapter 9 Question 42
 Part A
Why do we think Mercury has so many tremendous cliffs? ANSWER:
 They probably formed when a series of large impacts hit Mercury one after the other.
They were probably formed by tectonic stresses when the entire planet shrank as its core cooled.
They are almost certainly volcanic in origin, carved by flowing lava.
They were probably carved in Mercury's early history by running water.
They represent one of the greatest mysteries in the solar system, as no one has suggested a reasonable hypothesis for their formation.
      Correct
 Prelecture Reading Question 9.08
 Part A
Which of the following best describes the lunar maria? ANSWER:
 mountainous regions on the Moon
densely cratered regions on the Moon frozen oceans of liquid water on the Moon relatively smooth, flat plains on the Moon
     Correct
Score Summary:
Your score on this assignment is 98.8%.
You received 39.5 out of a possible total of 40 points.
https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898217 16/16

 11/12/2018 Assignment 7
Assignment 7
Due: 9:00am on Monday, November 12, 2018
You will receive no credit for items you complete after the assignment is due. Grading Policy
  Chapter 9 Question 47
 Part A
How have we been able to construct detailed maps of surface features on Venus? ANSWER:
  by using radar from spacecraft that were sent to orbit Venus
by making computer models of geological processes on Venus
by studying Venus from Earth with powerful telescopes
by landing spacecraft on the surface for close­up study
by studying Venus with powerful optical telescopes on spacecraft that were sent to orbit Venus
     Correct
 Prelecture Reading Question 9.11
 Part A
Based on its surface features, the most important event on Venus in the past billion years or so was _______. ANSWER:
  a global "repaving" that erased essentially all the surface features that had existed earlier
the impact of an unusually large asteroid that left a deep scar on one side of the planet
the onset of mantle convection, which caused Venus's lithosphere to split into plates like those on Earth the eruption of a giant volcano that formed one of Venus's "continents"
    Correct
 Chapter 10 Question 2
 Part A
Which of the following worlds has the most substantial atmosphere? ANSWER:
https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898280 1/29

 11/12/2018 Assignment 7
  Correct
Venus
Mercury the Moon Mars Earth
 Chapter 10 Question 3
 Part A
Which of the following planets has the least substantial atmosphere? ANSWER:
  Mercury
Mars Venus Neptune Earth
     Correct
 Chapter 10 Question 12
 Part A
How does the greenhouse effect work? ANSWER:
 Correct
 The higher pressure of the thick atmosphere at lower altitudes traps heat in more effectively.
Greenhouse gases transmit visible light, allowing it to heat the surface, but then absorb infrared light from Earth, trapping the heat near the surface.
Ozone transmits visible light, allowing it to heat the surface, but then absorbs most of the infrared heat, trapping the heat near the surface. Greenhouse gases absorb X rays and ultraviolet light from the Sun, which then heat the atmosphere and the surface.
Greenhouse gases absorb infrared light from the Sun, which then heats the atmosphere and the surface.
 Prelecture Reading Question 10.02
          https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898280 2/29

 11/12/2018 Assignment 7
 Part A
Which planet(s) have an atmosphere that consists mostly of carbon dioxide? ANSWER:
  Venus and Mars
Mars only
Venus, Earth, and Mars Venus only
    Correct
 Prelecture Reading Question 10.03
 Part A
Which of the following is the most basic definition of a greenhouse gas? ANSWER:
  a gas that reflects a lot of sunlight
a gas that absorbs infrared light
a gas that makes a planet much hotter than it would be otherwise, even in small amounts a gas that keeps warm air from rising, and therefore warms the surface
    Correct
 Prelecture Reading Question 10.04
 Part A
Suppose that Earth's atmosphere had no greenhouse gases. Then Earth's average surface temperature would be _______. ANSWER:
  well below the freezing point of water
slightly cooler, but still above freezing
about the same as it is now
slightly warmer, but still well below the boiling point of water
    Correct
 Problem 10.36
Choose the best answer.
 Part A
https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898280 3/29

 11/12/2018 Assignment 7
Which of the following is a strong greenhouse gas? ANSWER:
  nitrogen
 water vapor oxygen
  Correct
 Problem 10.40
Choose the best answer.
 Part A
About what fraction of Earth’s atmosphere is ? ANSWER:
  90
1
less than 0.1
   Correct
 Ranking Task: Atmospheric Pressure
 Part A
The following images show the four terrestrial planets in our solar system (not to scale). Rank these planets from left to right based on the atmospheric pressure at the surface, from highest to lowest.
 ANSWER:
Hint 1. What units do we use to measure atmospheric pressure?
You can look up the surface atmospheric pressure for the planets in a table of planetary data; you’ll find such a table in your textbook. In that table,
you will see the atmospheric pressure given in units of ___________. ANSWER:
  newtons
kilograms per cubic meter
bars, where 1 bar is Earth’s atmospheric pressure at sea level
  https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898280 4/29
2OC
%
%
%

 11/12/2018 Assignment 7
   Reset
Help
                                               Highest pressure Lowest pressure
  Correct
Note that the pressure differences are quite extreme. Mercury has essentially no atmosphere and no pressure. Earth’s atmospheric pressure is more than 100 times that of Mars, and Venus’s atmospheric pressure is about 90 times that of Earth.
Part B
The following images show the four terrestrial planets in our solar system (not to scale). Rank these planets from left to right based on the total amount of gas in their atmospheres, from most to least.
ANSWER:
      Reset
Help
                                               Most gas Least gas
 https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898280 5/29

 11/12/2018 Assignment 7
 Correct
Note that this ranking is the same as the pressure ranking from Part A. This should not be surprising, because more atmospheric gas generally means more pressure (though the strength of gravity at a planet’s surface also plays a role in determining the pressure).
Ranking Task: Understanding the Greenhouse Effect in Planet Atmospheres
  Part A
The following images represent four types (wavelength bands) of light. Rank these from left to right based on the amount of each that is emitted (as thermal radiation) by Earth’s surface, from greatest to least. If you think that two (or more) types should be ranked as equal, drag one on top of the other(s) to show this equality.
ANSWER:
  Hint 1. What determines the wavelengths of light emitted by Earth?
Earth emits thermal radiation, which means it has a spectrum that __________. ANSWER:
  has a few emission lines scattered about at all different wavelengths
is continuous with a peak at a wavelength determined solely by Earth’s surface temperature is continuous except for having evenly spaced absorption lines in all parts of the spectrum
     Reset
Help
                       Greatest amount Least amount
                        Correct
Earth emits thermal radiation characteristic of its surface temperature, which means it is almost entirely infrared (extending, in principle, down into the radio). For Earth, the surface temperature is too low to emit any visible, ultraviolet, or X­ray light, so those are all ranked equally. (Note: Technically, thermal emission extends over all wavelengths, so even at low temperatures there might be an occasional photon of visible or higher­ energy radiation. However, this emission is negligible for Earth, which is why we rank them all equal to zero.)
 Part B
https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898280 6/29

 11/12/2018 Assignment 7
In Part A, you found that Earth emits only infrared light. This infrared light can be absorbed by greenhouse gases, such as carbon dioxide and water vapor, in the atmosphere. In fact, all the terrestrial planets emit infrared light from their surfaces. The following images show the four terrestrial planets in our solar system. Rank these planets from left to right based on the total amount of infrared­absorbing greenhouse gases in their atmospheres, from greatest to least.
ANSWER:
   Hint 1. What atmospheric composition data for the terrestrial planets is
The following data on atmospheric pressure and composition can help you complete Part B:
• Mercury: surface pressure = 0 bar; atmospheric composition = helium, sodium, oxygen.
• Venus: surface pressure = 90 bars; atmospheric composition = 96% carbon dioxide.
• Earth: surface pressure = 1 bar; atmospheric composition = 77% nitrogen, 21% oxygen, less than 1% carbon dioxide, plus varying water vapor. • Mars: surface pressure = 0.007 bar; atmospheric composition = 95% carbon dioxide.
   Reset
Help
                                               Greatest greenhouse gas abundance Least greenhouse gas abundance
  Correct
Venus has a thick atmosphere of carbon dioxide. Earth has greenhouse gases primarily in the form of water vapor, carbon dioxide, and methane. Mars has an atmosphere made mostly of carbon dioxide, but its atmosphere is so thin that it contains less total greenhouse gas than Earth’s atmosphere. Mercury has essentially no atmosphere at all.
Part C
The following images show the four terrestrial planets in our solar system. Rank the planets from left to right based on the strength of the greenhouse effect occurring at their surfaces, from strongest to weakest.
ANSWER:
https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898280 7/29

 11/12/2018 Assignment 7
   Reset
Help
                                               Strongest Weakest
  Correct
The greenhouse effect is caused by greenhouse gases in the atmosphere, so more greenhouse gas means a stronger greenhouse effect. That is why the rankings here are the same as the rankings for Part B.
Part D
The following images show the four terrestrial planets in our solar system. Rank the planets from left to right based on the amount by which the greenhouse effect increases their surface temperatures, compared to what their temperatures would be without the greenhouse effect, from largest to smallest increase.
ANSWER:
      Reset
Help
                                               Largest increase Smallest increase
 https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898280 8/29

 11/12/2018 Assignment 7
 Correct
A stronger greenhouse effect means a greater temperature increase, which is why the rankings here are the same as the rankings for Parts B and C. The differences are quite extreme: Mercury has no greenhouse effect, so its temperature is determined solely by its distance from the Sun and its reflectivity. The greenhouse effect raises the temperature of Mars by about 6°C from what it would be otherwise; it raises Earth’s temperature by about 31°C (which means our planet would be frozen over without the greenhouse effect); and it raises Venus’s temperature by about 510°C, explaining the extremely high temperature of Venus.
Visual Activity: Basic Ideas of the Greenhouse Effect
Launch the animation below, which will help you with the questions that follow. Pay particular attention to the first two tabs ("the greenhouse effect" and "terrestrial planet temperatures."
    Part A
On a cloudless day, what happens to most of the visible light headed toward Earth?
 ANSWER:
  It is reflected by Earth’s atmosphere.
It is absorbed and reemitted by gases in Earth’s atmosphere.
It is completely reflected by Earth’s surface.
It reaches Earth’s surface, where some is reflected and some is absorbed.
    Correct
Most visible light passes through our atmosphere, and this light heats the surface as it is absorbed.
Hint 1. What path does visible light take through Earth’s atmosphere?
True or False? When passing through Earth’s atmosphere, visible light is mostly unaffected by molecules in the atmosphere and will follow a
straight­line path. ANSWER:
  True
False
  Part B
What happens to the energy that the ground absorbs in the form of visible sunlight?
https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898280 9/29

 11/12/2018 Assignment 7
ANSWER:
  It is returned upward in the form of infrared light.
 It is returned upward in the form of visible light.
It makes the ground continually get hotter and hotter.
    Correct
Remember that objects emit thermal radiation characteristic of their temperatures. Earth’s surface has a temperature for which its thermal radiation peaks in the infrared. In other words, Earth absorbs energy from space in the form of visible light, and returns this energy to space in the form of infrared light.
Part C
The greenhouse effect raises Earth’s surface temperature (from what it would be otherwise) because the infrared light radiated by Earth’s surface __________.
 ANSWER:
 travels directly out to space
becomes permanently trapped by greenhouse gases
is absorbed by greenhouse gases, slowing the escape of this energy to space
    Hint 1. What path does infrared light take through Earth’s atmosphere?
True or False? When passing through Earth’s atmosphere, infrared light is mostly unaffected by molecules in the atmosphere. ANSWER:
  True
False
  Correct
As shown in the interactive figure and discussed in your textbook, the infrared light ultimately escapes to space, but its absorption and re­ emission along the way has the overall effect of increasing molecular motions that raise the air temperature from what it would be otherwise.
 Chapter 10 Question 40
 Part A
Why isn't Earth's atmosphere mostly hydrogen? ANSWER:
 Light gases such as hydrogen move faster than heavier gases and escape from Earth's gravitational field.
All the hydrogen was blasted away during the early bombardment stage of the solar system. Earth formed too close to the Sun for any planetesimals to have hydrogen.
The hydrogen is frozen in the polar ice caps.
All the hydrogen reacted with oxygen and formed the oceans.
       https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898280 10/29

 11/12/2018 Assignment 7
Correct
 Prelecture Reading Question 10.09
  Part A
What do we mean by a runaway greenhouse effect? ANSWER:
  Correct
a greenhouse effect that keeps getting stronger until all of a planet's greenhouse gases are in its atmosphere
a greenhouse effect that heats a planet so much that its surface rock melts
a process that heats a planet like a greenhouse effect, but that involves a completely different mechanism of heating that doesn't actually involve greenhouse gases
a greenhouse effect that starts on a planet but later disappears as gases are lost to space
 Chapter 10 Question 45
 Part A
Which of the following is not a product of outgassing? ANSWER:
  sulfur dioxide
water
nitrogen carbon dioxide oxygen
     Correct
 Chapter 10 Question 46
 Part A
Which of the following statements about the greenhouse effect is true? ANSWER:
    https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898280 11/29

 11/12/2018 Assignment 7
 Correct
 The burning of fossil fuels increases the greenhouse effect on Earth because of the release of carbon dioxide.
Without the naturally occurring greenhouse effect, Earth would be too cold to have liquid oceans.
One result of an increased greenhouse effect on Earth may be an increased number of severe storms. A weak greenhouse effect operates on Mars.
All of the above are true.
 Chapter 10 Question 47
 Part A
Why does the burning of fossil fuels increase the greenhouse effect on Earth? ANSWER:
  Burning depletes the amount of ozone, thereby warming the planet.
Burning fuel warms the planet.
Burning releases carbon dioxide into the atmosphere.
Burning produces infrared light, which is then trapped by existing greenhouse gases. All of the above are true.
     Correct
 Chapter 10 Question 50
 Part A
Earth's atmosphere contains only small amounts of carbon dioxide because ANSWER:
  Earth's volcanoes did not outgas as much carbon dioxide as those on Venus and Mars.
carbon dioxide dissolves in water, and most of it is now contained in the oceans and carbonate rocks.
most of the carbon dioxide was lost during the age of bombardment.
chemical reactions with other gases destroyed the carbon dioxide and replaced it with the nitrogen that is in the atmosphere now. Earth doesn't have as strong a greenhouse effect as is present on Venus.
     Correct
 Chapter 10 Question 53
     https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898280 12/29

 11/12/2018 Assignment 7
 Part A
If Earth were to warm up a bit, what would happen? ANSWER:
 Correct
 There would be a runaway greenhouse effect, with Earth becoming ever hotter until the oceans evaporated (as may have happened on Venus).
Carbonate materials would form in the oceans more rapidly, the atmospheric CO2 content would decrease, and the greenhouse effect would weaken slowly over time.
The ice caps would melt and cool Earth back to its normal temperature.
Carbonate materials would form in the oceans more rapidly, the atmospheric CO2 content would decrease, and the greenhouse effect would strengthen slowly over time.
Carbonate materials would form in the oceans more slowly, the atmospheric CO2 content would increase, and the greenhouse effect would strengthen slowly over time.
 Prelecture Reading Question 10.12
 Part A
Which of the following is NOT an expected consequence of global warming? ANSWER:
 melting of polar ice and glaciers
an increase in the number and intensity of hurricanes an increase in the severity of winter blizzards warming up of the entire Earth by the same amount
     Correct
 Chapter 9 Question 44
 Part A
Valles Marineris is a ANSWER:
  vast plain on Mars.
large canyon on Mars.
large valley on the Moon.
large canyon on Venus.
huge series of cliffs on Mercury.
     Correct
      https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898280 13/29

 11/12/2018 Assignment 7
Problem 9.34
Choose the best answer.
 Part A
Which describes our understanding of flowing water on Mars? ANSWER:
  It was never important.
It was important once, but no longer.
It is a major process on the Martian surface today.
   Correct
 Process of Science — Extraordinary Claims: Martians! ­ Copy
Learning Goal:
To understand the difference between what we know, don’t know, and are uncertain of about Mars.
Introduction. Read the Extraordinary Claims text around which this tutorial is focused. You may also wish to review sections of your textbook relevant to the claim.
  Part A
Each statement below represents a feature that has been claimed to exist on Mars. Sort the statements into the correct bin according to whether each is a feature that actually exists, that does not actually exist, or that might exist but about which we cannot yet draw a definitive conclusion.
ANSWER:
    Reset
Help
                                                          cities built by an ancient civilization
     dried­up river beds
      frequent rainfall and snowfall
   microscopic life
     minerals of types known to form in liquid water
      a network of straight­line canals
   underground pockets of liquid water
           abundant water ice
permanent surface pools of liquid water
      Correct
Notice that there is no evidence of any Martian civilization past or present, but there is evidence that Mars once had surface liquid water, which raises the possibility that it might still have underground pockets of liquid water and, perhaps, microscopic life.
 Part B
Percival Lowell’s claims of a Martian civilization generated great public interest, but other scientists of his time were highly skeptical of these claims. Which two of the following statements (which are all true) explain why other scientists of the late 19th and early 20th centuries rejected Lowell’s claims?
https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898280 14/29
)tsixe ton thgim ro thgim taht serutaef( )tsixe ton od taht serutaef( )tsixe yllaer taht serutaef( sraM nwonknU sraM yranigamI sraM laeR

  11/12/2018 Assignment 7
Select exactly two of the following choices.
ANSWER:
  Mars rotates with a period only a little longer than Earth’s rotation period.
Like Earth, Mars has polar ice caps.
Mars has an axis tilt very similar to Earth’s axis tilt.
Lowell’s canals followed perfectly straight lines for thousands of kilometers. Lowell’s canals did not appear in photographs of Mars taken through telescopes.
       Correct
If the canals had been real, they would have shown up in photographs. Moreover, as discussed in the Extraordinary Claims box, real canals would be expected follow natural contours of the surface, rather than going in perfectly straight lines.
Part C
The image below shows a rock formation nicknamed “the face on Mars” that was taken by the Viking 1 orbiter in 1976. Given the clear resemblance to a face, what is an appropriate scientific reaction to this image?
ANSWER:
   Assume that NASA’s spacecraft must have been hacked by someone perpetrating a hoax, and therefore ignore the image.
Conclude that the resemblance to a human face is so clear that it cannot have been made by nature and that this geological feature must have been built by an advanced civilization.
Assume it is most likely a coincidental result of light and shadow, and plan higher resolution follow­up observations.
Assume that the image is probably evidence of an advanced civilization, and develop plans to attempt radio communication wit the civilization.
    https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898280 15/29

 11/12/2018 Assignment 7
 Correct
In fact, later missions did obtain higher resolution images of this same feature, such as the one shown here. Notice that it no longer looks much like a face, and detailed comparison of the images shows that the original looked like a face only because of they way light and shadow were upon the feature at the time the photo was taken.
 Visual Activity: Basic Surface Features of Mars
First, launch the animation below. Explore the interactive photo before beginning to answer the questions. Be sure you have clicked the “Turn labels on” button.
    Part A
Assuming that features you see on Mars are similar to features found on Earth, what would a casual inspection of the interactive photo of Mars lead you to suspect about water on Mars?
 Hint 1. Are there rivers, lakes, and seas visible in the photo of Mars?
True or False? Many examples of present­day rivers, lakes, and seas are plainly visible in the photo of Mars. ANSWER:
Hint 2. Does Mars have polar ice caps?
True or False? Mars has polar ice caps, suggesting the presence of frozen water there. ANSWER:
  True
False
 https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898280 16/29

11/12/2018 Assignment 7
  https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898280 17/29
 ANSWER:
  Abundant surface water is found in large, brownish pools inside craters.
There are numerous small streams flowing with water. Surface water only exists as frozen ice.
No surface water currently exists in any form.
     True
False
Correct
There is nothing on the brownish surface to suggest liquid water, and close­up photos confirm that there is no liquid water on Mars today. However, the prominent polar caps look much like Earth’s polar caps, and would therefore make you suspect that they are made of water ice. In fact, they contain both frozen carbon dioxide and frozen water.
Part B
Which of the following Mars surface features provides dramatic evidence that volcanism has played a role in shaping the surface of Mars?
ANSWER:
  the polar caps
the southern highlands Valles Marineris Olympus Mons
     Hint 1. Does Mars have large mountains?
True or False? Mars has numerous large mountains. ANSWER:
Hint 2. Are Martian craters connected to volcanism?
True or False? The many large craters found throughout the southern highlands are indicative of volcanism. ANSWER:
  True
False
   True
False
 Correct
Olympus Mons is a very large, shallow­sloped volcano (or "shield volcano"). You can also see numerous other volcanoes on Mars, including three large ones on the Tharsis bulge.
    
 11/12/2018 Assignment 7
 Part C
Go to the screen in the interactive figure called "Key Evidence of Water," then zoom in on the “Southern Highlands.” Which geologic processes are most clearly evident in the southern highlands?
ANSWER:
  volcanism and erosion
impact cratering and erosion impact cratering and volcanism tectonics and erosion volcanism and tectonics
       Hint 1. What surface features are prominent in the southern highlands? True or False? A great many craters are present in the southern highlands. ANSWER:
Hint 2. Are all of the surface features in the southern highlands equally distinct?
True or False? Of the craters seen in the southern highlands, some have features that are more crisp and distinct than others. ANSWER:
  True
False
   True
False
  Correct
The most obvious features of the southern highlands are the many impact craters, but a close examination shows that many of them have been “smoothed out,” indicating erosion that has occurred over time.
Part D
Go to the screen in the interactive figure called "Major Geological Features." Which of the following statements about the Tharsis Bulge, often simply called "Tharsis," are true?
Select all that apply.
ANSWER:
  Tharsis is located close to Mars's north pole.
Tharsis has several large volcanoes.
Tharsis has higher elevation than surrounding regions. Tharsis was probably the site of an ancient ocean. Tharsis is the most heavily cratered region of Mars. One end of Valles Marineris is connected to Tharsis.
       https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898280 18/29

 11/12/2018 Assignment 7
Correct
All three of these features of Tharsis are clearly evident when you study the Interactive Figure.
 Visual Activity: Exploring Surface Features of Mars
First, launch the animation below. Explore the interactive photo before beginning to answer the questions. Be sure you have clicked the “Turn labels on” button.
    Part A
Start on the home screen of the interactive figure, with "Elevation is off." Then turn elevation on, and compare what you see. You may wish to switch back and forth between elevation on and off a few times. Then select the statements below that are true. Note: Features such as impact craters that are actually round in shape are distorted into oval shapes at mid­ to high­latitudes by map projection effects.
Select all that apply.
ANSWER:
  The northern hemisphere is more heavily cratered than the southern hemisphere.
Most of the northern hemisphere has much lower elevation than the southern hemisphere. The icy polar caps have the highest elevations of any features on Mars.
Several large volcanoes are found near or somewhat north of Mars's equator.
There is a large, roundish region of low­elevation in the southern hemisphere.
There is a long, deep canyon that strectches along a region close to Mars's equator.
      Correct
These features are clearly evident when you study the Interactive Figure.
 Part B
Now go to the screen "Major Geological Features," and explore the main screen with labels on and off and elevation on and off. Then complete the sentences below.
Drag words from the left to the correct blanks at the right.
ANSWER:
https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898280 19/29

  11/12/2018 Assignment 7
   Reset Help
            Proctor Crater
The tallest mountain on Mars is called
Olympus Mons
.
       Amazonis Planitia
        The long, deep canyon running along the equator is called
          is a high­elevation region dotted by tall volcanoes.
Valles Marineris
.
       Tharsis Bulge
                  The large, roundish, low­elevation region in the southern hemisphere is called
Hellas Basin
.
         Correct
Be sure you have studied the map with elevation on, so you can see these features clearly. Again, note that impact craters, including Hellas Basin, appear oval on the map only because of projection effects; on a globe you would see that they are nearly circular.
Part C
Go to the screen "Key Evidence of Water," and and select the feature called "Recurring Slope Lineae." Study this feature at each of the four zoom levels offered, and be sure to view the animation called "recurring slope linaea (gif)" that you will see at the third zoom level. Which of the following statements are true?
Select all that apply.
ANSWER:
  The recurring slope lineae are found among impact craters.
The recurring slope lineae appear to be volcanic in origin.
The recurring slope lineae look like narrow dark streaks.
The recurring slope lineae are found on flat ground.
The recurring slope lineae appear to grow in spring and summer.
     Correct
The seasonal changes in the recurring slope lineae offer an important clue to the nature.
  Part D
Go to the screen "Mars Mission Landing Sites," and and select Opportunity landing site (2004). Explore all five zoom levels offered, making sure to read the captions at the tops of the screens. Based on the information provided, why was the landing site,called Meridiani Planum, chosen for the Opportunity mission?
ANSWER:
  The region was already known to have very small rocks called "blueberries" that likely formed in liquid water.
The region is near the Martian equator, which makes landing easier.
The region was in the only part of Mars that had not yet been explored.
The region has very low elevation, and therefore might once have been in an ancient ocean. The region was already known to have minerals likely to have formed in liquid water.
     https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898280 20/29

 11/12/2018 Assignment 7
 Correct
As explained in the interactive figure, Meridiani Planum was already known (from orbital missions) to have minerals of types thought likely to have formed in liquid water, and the Opportunity mission added strong evidence that this was indeed the case.
Chapter 9 Question 48
  Part A
Which two geological processes appear to have been most important in shaping the present surface of Venus? ANSWER:
  impacts and volcanoes
impacts and tectonics tectonics and erosion volcanoes and erosion volcanoes and tectonics
     Correct
 Chapter 9 Question 49
 Part A
Which of the following show evidence of ancient river beds? ANSWER:
  Mercury
Mars
Venus
the Moon
all of the above
     Correct
 Chapter 9 Question 71
 Part A
Erosion is the most important geological process on Venus. ANSWER:
https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898280 21/29

 11/12/2018 Assignment 7
  Correct
True
False
 Chapter 9 Question 74
 Part A
Earth is the only terrestrial planet to have experienced tectonic stresses and volcanic activity. ANSWER:
  True
False
  Correct
 Chapter 9 Question 73
 Part A
In the inner solar system, the largest surface features are found on the largest planets. ANSWER:
  True
False
  Correct
 Problem 9.37
Choose the best answer.
 Part A
On how many of the five terrestrial worlds has erosion been an important process? (Be sure that you explain why erosion is important on this many worlds and not more.)
ANSWER:
  one
two
three or more
   Correct
 https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898280 22/29

 11/12/2018 Assignment 7
 Chapter 10 Question 58
 Part A
Venus has a thicker atmosphere than Earth. ANSWER:
  True
False
  Correct
 Chapter 10 Question 64
 Part A
Without greenhouse gases, Earth's surface would be frozen over. ANSWER:
  True
False
  Correct
 Chapter 10 Question 87
 Part A
Which process is the primary source of the atmospheric gases on Venus? ANSWER:
  chemical reactions with surface material
bombardment
outgassing from volcanoes thermal escape
evaporation and vaporization
     Correct
 Chapter 10 Question 88
 Part A
Which process is the primary source of the atmospheric gases on Earth?
https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898280 23/29

 11/12/2018 Assignment 7
ANSWER:
  bombardment
 outgassing from volcanoes
evaporation and vaporization
chemical reactions with surface material thermal escape
    Correct
 Interactive Figure: The Greenhouse Effect and Global Warming
First, launch the animation below. Explore the interactive figure to help you answer the questions that follow.
    Part A
Click on the first tab at the top of the interactive figure (labeled "The Greenhouse Effect"), then explore what happens as you click among the buttons (labeled "none," "low," "medium," and "high") that adjust the greenhouse gas concentration. Which of the following occur as the greenhouse gas concentration increase?
Select all that apply.
ANSWER:
  the average surface temperature falls
more infrared light comes to Earth from the Sun more visible light reaches the ground
less visible light reaches the ground
the average surface temperature rises
more infrared light is absorbed in the lower atmosphere more visible light is absorbed in the lower atmosphere
        Correct
Greenhouse gases absorb (and re­emit) infrared light, so a higher greenhouse gas concentration leads to more infrared scattering and higher average surface temperature.
 Part B
https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898280 24/29

 11/12/2018 Assignment 7
Now click the second tab (labeled "Terrestrial Planet Temperatures"), then explore what happens as you click the button that allows you to add or remove greenhouse gases. Which terrestrial planet would have its surface temperature the most dramatically changed if its greenhouse gases were removed from its atmosphere?
ANSWER:
  Mars
Mercury Venus Earth
    Correct
The change is by far the largest for Venus, because it has a thick atmosphere consisting primarily of carbon dioxide, a greenhouse gas.
 Part C
Click the third tab (labeled "Global Warming"), then explore the graph and the expanded views you will find by clicking the "?" buttons. Which of the following statements are supported by the data shown?
ANSWER:
  Human activity has caused the carbon dioxide concentration to swing up and down wildly over the past 800,000 years.
Atmospheric carbon dioxide levels have risen dramatically over the past century.
Earth's global temperature today is higher than it has ever been before.
Rises in global average temperature tend to be closely associated with rises in atmospheric carbon dioxide concentration. Earth's global average temperature has generally risen over the past century.
      Correct
Rising carbon dioxide is closely associated with rising temperatures, and both the carbon dioxide concentration and temperature have been rising over the past century, which is why scientists are so concerned about global warming. Note that today's temperature is not the highest it has been in the past 800,000 years, though it is getting close to that level. (But Earth's temperature has been higher in the more distant past.)
 Part D
Click the fourth tab (labeled "Computer Models"), then explore how the graph changes as you click among the three buttons to its left. What is the primary message of the full graph (with all three curves shown)?
ANSWER:
  Climate models are unable to account for the major recent trend in temperature data.
Climate models can successfully reproduce the major recent trends in temperature data by considering natural factors alone.
Climate models successfully reproduce the major recent trend in temperature data only if both human and natural factors are included.
    Correct
The red curve represents models that include both natural factors and human contributions, and it provides a close match to actual temperature data (the black curve).
 Chapter 10 Question 36
 Part A
https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898280 25/29

 11/12/2018 Assignment 7
Where is most of the water on Mars? ANSWER:
  distributed evenly throughout its atmosphere
 in its clouds
in deep underground deposits
frozen on the peaks of its tall volcanoes
in its polar caps and subsurface ground ice
    Correct
 Problem 10.41
 Part A
What causes the release of oxygen into Earth’s atmosphere? ANSWER:
  photosynthesis
vaporization outgassing
   Correct
 Problem 10.42
Choose the best answer.
 Part A
Where is most of the that has outgassed from Earth’s volcanoes? ANSWER:
  in the atmosphere
escaped into space locked up in rocks
   Correct
 Prelecture Narrated Figure: Mars Climate Change
https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898280 26/29
2OC

 11/12/2018 Assignment 7
First, launch the video below. Then, close the video window and answer the questions at right. You can watch the video again at any point.
   Part A
Each of the following statements was either true for Mars in the distant past (early Mars) or is true for Mars today. Sort the statements by dragging each into the correct bin.
ANSWER:
   Reset
Help
                                                Early Mars (more than 3 billion years ago)
Strong greenhouse effect.
Mars Today
     Very weak greenhouse effect.
           Surface pressure too low for stable liquid water.
      Some craters held lakes of water.
Strong magnetosphere.
            Substantial volcanism and outgassing.
Core convection.
   Solar wind strips atmospheric gas.
      Correct
Now let’s explore some of these ideas in a little more detail.
 Part B
As you found in Part A, early Mars had both core convection and a strong magnetosphere. What is the connection between these two things? ANSWER:
  Core convection helps generate a magnetic field, and the magnetic field creates the magnetosphere.
Both core convection and a magnetosphere are consequences of a strong greenhouse effect. Core convection creates volcanism and outgassing, the gas creates the magnetosphere. Both core convection and a magnetosphere can exist only a very young planet.
     https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898280 27/29

 11/12/2018 Assignment 7
 Correct
Early Mars had a strong magnetic field because of the combination of convection in its molten metal core and a relatively rapid rotation rate. The magnetic field created the magnetosphere that shielded the atmosphere from the solar wind.
Part C
What key process underlies why Mars changed so much from its early conditions to its conditions today? ANSWER:
  Slowing of its rotation rate.
Outgassing.
Interior cooling. Evaporation of its ocean.
       Correct
Cooling of the interior explains both why core convection stopped, leading to weakening of the magnetic field and magnetosphere, and why volcanism and outgassing became so much weaker.
Part D
All of the following statements are true. Which one explains why Mars has lost so much more interior heat than Earth. ANSWER:
  Mars is smaller than Earth.
Mars has a much weaker greenhouse effect than Earth. Mars lacks a large moon.
Mars has lost much more atmospheric gas than Earth. Mars is farther from the Sun than Earth.
     Correct
Smaller objects cool more rapidly than large ones, so Mars’s smaller size explains why it has lost much more interior heat than Earth.
 Part E
As discussed in the video, the leading hypothesis for why Mars changed holds that interior cooling led to loss of its magnetosphere, allowing the solar wind to strip atmospheric gas away. How has the MAVEN mission provided evidence for this hypothesis?
ANSWER:
  It has measured the strength of the magnetic field that Mars had long ago.
It measured the amount of atmospheric gas that Mars had long ago. It has measured rates of gas loss from the atmosphere today.
It has measured the rate at which Mars’s interior has lost heat.
     Correct
These measurements confirm that Mars is still losing gas to solar wind stripping, and also allow scientists to estimate how much gas loss has occurred over time.
https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898280 28/29

 11/12/2018 Assignment 7
  Problem 10.31
Decide whether the statement makes sense (or is clearly true) or does not make sense (or is clearly false).
 Part A
If Earth had as much carbon dioxide in its atmosphere as Venus, our planet would not have oceans. ANSWER:
Score Summary:
Your score on this assignment is 99.3%.
You received 58.56 out of a possible total of 59 points.
  false
true
  Correct
https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1898280 29/29

 11/19/2018 Assignment 8
Assignment 8
Due: 9:00am on Monday, November 19, 2018
You will receive no credit for items you complete after the assignment is due. Grading Policy
  Chapter 12 Question 1
 Part A
Which of the following statements about comets and asteroids is true? ANSWER:
  Most of the trillions of comets in our solar system have tails.
All asteroids lie in the asteroid belt between Mars and Jupiter. There are about 1 million known asteroids in the solar system. Only asteroids collide with Earth.
Comets are balls of ice and dust.
     Correct
 Chapter 12 Question 2
 Part A
What do asteroids and comets have in common? ANSWER:
  They have similar orbital radii.
They have similar densities.
They have nothing in common with each other.
They have a similar range of orbital inclinations.
Most are unchanged since their formation in the solar nebula.
     Correct
 Chapter 12 Question 4
 Part A
An icy leftover planetesimal orbiting the Sun is ANSWER:
https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1913837 1/17

 11/19/2018 Assignment 8
  Correct
an asteroid.
a meteorite.
a meteor.
a comet.
possibly any of the above
 Sorting Task: Comets, Meteors, and Asteroids
 Part A
Listed following are some distinguishing characteristics of comets, meteors, and asteroids. Match these to the appropriate category of objects.
ANSWER:
 Hint 1. Where is the asteroid belt located? The asteroid belt is located __________. ANSWER:
Hint 2. What are the Kuiper belt and Oort cloud?
The Kuiper belt and Oort cloud can be described as __________. ANSWER:
Hint 3. Where can you see a meteor? Meteors can be viewed only __________. ANSWER:
  between Mars and Jupiter
from about the orbit of Neptune to about twice Neptune’s distance from the Sun in a spherical region far beyond the orbit of Pluto
    regions in which we find asteroids
regions from which comets enter the inner solar system large groups of meteors
    on terrestrial planets
on worlds with atmospheres in space
       https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1913837 2/17

 11/19/2018 Assignment 8
 Correct
   Reset
Help
                                        Comets
    form a coma when near the Sun
     most are located either in Kuiper belt or Oort cloud
     visible in the sky as a fuzzy patch of light that rises and sets with the stars
     Meteors
    visible in the sky as a bright streak of light for only a few seconds
     dust particles entering Earth's atmosphere at high speed
     Asteroids
    typically orbit the Sun at approximately 3 AU
     compositions similar to that of the terrestrial planets
   Chapter 12 Question 12
 Part A
The large gaps in the asteroid belt (often called Kirkwood gaps) are caused by ANSWER:
  orbital resonances with Jupiter.
large asteroids that clear certain regions of the asteroid belt. tidal forces from the Sun.
tidal forces from Jupiter.
the competing gravitational tugs of Mars and Jupiter.
     Correct
 Chapter 12 Question 17
 Part A
Why aren't small asteroids spherical in shape? ANSWER:
https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1913837 3/17

 11/19/2018 Assignment 8
 Correct
 Large asteroids became spherical because many small collisions chipped off pieces until only a sphere was left; this did not occur with small asteroids.
Large asteroids were once molten and therefore became spherical, but small asteroids were never molten. Small asteroids have odd shapes because they were all chipped off larger objects.
The strength of gravity on small asteroids is less than the strength of the rock.
 Chapter 12 Question 33
 Part A
Comets with extremely elliptical orbits, like comets Hyakutake and Hale­Bopp, ANSWER:
  come from the Oort cloud.
come from the Kuiper belt. are Trojan comets.
come from the asteroid belt. are captured by Jupiter.
     Correct
 Ranking Task: Asteroid Belt, Kuiper Belt, and Oort Cloud
 Part A
Listed following are several objects in the solar system. Rank these objects from left to right based on their distance from the Sun, from closest to farthest.
 Hint 1. Where is the asteroid belt located? The asteroid belt is located __________. ANSWER:
Hint 2. Where is the Kuiper belt located? The Kuiper belt is located __________. ANSWER:
  between Mars and Jupiter
ahead of and behind Jupiter in the same orbit of the Sun as Jupiter
from about the orbit of Neptune to about twice Neptune’s distance from the Sun in a spherical region far beyond the orbit of Pluto
       https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1913837 4/17

11/19/2018 Assignment 8
 https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1913837 5/17
ANSWER:
 Hint 3. Where is the Oort cloud located? The Oort cloud is located __________. ANSWER:
 between Mars and Jupiter
ahead of and behind Jupiter in the same orbit of the Sun as Jupiter
from about the orbit of Neptune to about twice Neptune’s distance from the Sun in a spherical region far beyond the orbit of Pluto
    between Mars and Jupiter
ahead of and behind Jupiter in the same orbit of the Sun as Jupiter
from about the orbit of Neptune to about twice Neptune’s distance from the Sun in a spherical region far beyond the orbit of Pluto
   Reset
Help
                   Closest Farthest
a typical Kuiper belt object a typical Oort cloud object
      a typical asteroid in the asteroid belt
          Correct
The asteroid belt is located between Mars and Jupiter. The Kuiper belt is a region beginning just beyond the orbit of Neptune. The Oort cloud is located far beyond the orbits of the planets.
 Part B
Listed following are several objects in the solar system. Rank these objects from left to right based on their orbital period around the Sun from shortest to longest.
 Hint 1. How Is the period of an object’s orbit related to its distance from the Sun?
According to Kepler’s third law, an object that is farther from the Sun (larger semimajor axis) has __________. ANSWER:
      
11/19/2018 Assignment 8
 https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1913837 6/17
ANSWER:
 Correct
Be sure to notice that these objects obey Kepler’s laws, so the more distant objects have longer orbital periods.
 a longer orbital period than an object closer to the Sun
a shorter orbital period than an object closer to the Sun the same orbital period as an object closer to the Sun
   Reset
Help
                   Shortest Longest
a typical Kuiper belt object a typical Oort cloud object
      a typical asteroid in the asteroid belt
          Part C
Listed following are several objects in the solar system. Rank these objects from left to right based on the distance from the Sun at which they are presumed to have formed, from nearest to farthest.
 ANSWER:
Hint 1. Where did Oort cloud comets form?
The comets of the Oort cloud are thought to have formed __________. ANSWER:
  in the region where they are now located, far from the Sun
in the same region as the Kuiper belt
in the same region as the jovian planets
       
 11/19/2018 Assignment 8
   Reset
Help
                  Nearest to Sun Farthest from Sun
a typical Oort cloud object a typical Kuiper belt object
      a typical asteroid in the asteroid belt
           Correct
Although Oort cloud comets are now located far beyond the Kuiper belt, they are thought to have formed in the region of the jovian planets. They were then "kicked out" to their current orbits by gravitational encounters with the jovian planets.
Chapter 12 Question 37
  Part A
Why won't Pluto collide with Neptune? ANSWER:
  It could!
The two planets have an orbital resonance that prevents them from colliding. Pluto's orbit is completely inside Neptune's orbit.
Pluto's orbit is completely outside Neptune's orbit.
Pluto's orbit never comes anywhere close to Neptune's orbit.
     Correct
 Chapter 12 Question 40
 Part A
In the asteroid impact theory of the extinction of the dinosaurs some 65 million years ago, the dinosaurs (and over half of all the other species on Earth at that time) died off largely because
ANSWER:
https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1913837 7/17

 11/19/2018 Assignment 8
 Correct
 dust settled on the leaves of plants, making them inedible, so the animals died of starvation.
the impact caused massive earthquakes and volcanic activity worldwide.
radiation from iridium in the asteroid caused the dinosaurs to die of cancer.
dust injected into the stratosphere from the impact absorbed visible light from the Sun, causing global temperatures to plummet. of injuries suffered from direct hits of pieces of the asteroid or comet.
 Chapter 12 Question 42
 Part A
On average, how often do impactors about 10 km in size, large enough to produce mass extinction, hit Earth? ANSWER:
  once in Earth's history
once every thousand years
once every hundred million years once every million years
once every century
     Correct
 Chapter 11 Question 3
 Part A
How many more times is the atmospheric pressure in Jupiter's core greater than the atmospheric pressure at Earth's surface? ANSWER:
  10 million
100 million 100 thousand 1 million
10 thousand
     Correct
 Chapter 11 Question 6
 Part A
     https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1913837 8/17

 11/19/2018 Assignment 8
How does Jupiter's core compare to Earth? ANSWER:
  It is the same size and mass.
 It is about 10 times larger in size and the same mass.
It is about the same size but is 10 times more massive.
It is about 10 times larger both in size and mass.
Jupiter doesn't have a core—it is made entirely from hydrogen and helium.
    Correct
 Chapter 11 Question 9
 Part A
Why is Saturn almost as big as Jupiter, despite its smaller mass? ANSWER:
  Jupiter's strong magnetic field constrains its size.
Saturn's rings make the planet look bigger.
Saturn is further from the Sun, thus cooler, and therefore less compact.
Saturn has a larger proportion of hydrogen and helium than Jupiter, and is therefore less dense. Jupiter's greater mass compresses it more, thus increasing its density.
     Correct
 Chapter 11 Question 11
 Part A
How do the jovian planet interiors differ? ANSWER:
  All have cores of about the same mass, but differ in the amount of surrounding hydrogen and helium.
The composition changes from mostly hydrogen in Jupiter and Saturn to mostly helium in Uranus and Neptune.
The core mass decreases with the mass of the planet.
The composition changes from mostly ammonia in Jupiter and Saturn to mostly methane in Uranus and Neptune.
All have about the same amount of hydrogen and helium but the proportion of rocks is greater in those planets closer to the Sun.
     Correct
 Chapter 11 Question 13
https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1913837 9/17

 11/19/2018 Assignment 8
Part A
Why does Jupiter have several distinct cloud layers? ANSWER:
 Different layers represent the various regions where the temperature is cool enough for liquid water to condense.
Winds prevent clouds from forming at some altitudes, so we see clouds only at the other altitudes. Clouds form randomly, so on average there are always several layers.
Different layers represent clouds made of gases that condense at different temperatures. Different gases are present at different altitudes in Jupiter's atmosphere.
      Correct
  Prelecture Reading Question 11.02
 Part A
Which of the following best describes the internal layering of Jupiter, from the center outward? ANSWER:
  Correct
core of rock, metal, and hydrogen compounds; thick layer of metallic hydrogen; layer of liquid hydrogen; layer of gaseous hydrogen; cloud layer
solid rock core; layer of solid metallic hydrogen; layer of pure liquid hydrogen; cloud layer
core of rock and metal; mantle of lower density rock; upper layer of gaseous hydrogen; cloud layer
liquid core of hydrogen compounds; liquid hydrogen layer; metallic hydrogen layer; gaseous hydrogen layer; cloud layer
 Problem 11.28
Choose the best answer.
 Part A
Why does Neptune appear blue and Jupiter red? ANSWER:
 Neptune is hotter, which gives bluer thermal emission.
Methane in Neptune's atmosphere absorbs red light.
Neptune's air molecules scatter blue light, much as Earth's atmosphere does.
    Correct
 Sorting Task: Jovian Planet Properties
Learning Goal:
    https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1913837 10/17

 11/19/2018 Assignment 8
To understand and distinguish among basic properties of the four jovian planets in our solar system.
 Part A
Sort each of the planetary properties below based on whether they apply to some, all, or none of the four jovian planets in our solar system.
 Hint 1. Basic data about jovian planets
The figure below shows the four jovian planets to scale, along with basic data about them. Use the information from this figure to sort the items
about planetary composition.
 Hint 2. Interior structures of the jovian planets
The figure below shows the general structure of the four jovian planets and the composition of each layer. Use the information from this figure to
sort the items about planetary interiors.
 Hint 3. Magnetic fields of the jovian planets
The figure below represents the magnetospheres of the four jovian planets, with the size of the Sun shown for scale. Recall that magnetospheres require a magnetic field, and that Earth's magnetosphere is much smaller in size than the Sun.
https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1913837 11/17

11/19/2018 Assignment 8
https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1913837 12/17
 Hint 4. Rings of the jovian planets
The photos below shows the rings of each of the four jovian planets. Rings appear solid from a distance, but in fact they are made of countless
small particles of ice and rock.
 Hint 5. What explains the cores and compositions of jovian planets?
According to the leading model, which of the following best summarizes how the jovian planets formed? ANSWER:
 
11/19/2018 Assignment 8
 ANSWER:
The process was different for each jovian planet, with the smaller jovian planets forming from smaller planetesimals.
Large planetesimals of ice and rock accreted; the gravity of these planetesimals then drew in surrounding gas from the solar nebula. Accretion gradually pulled a mixture of hydrogen and helium gas into large balls that became the jovian planets.
   Reset
Help
                                                             Jupiter and Saturn only
Uranus and Neptune only
all four jovian planets
no jovian planets
                        interior is mostly liquid or metallic hd
blue color because of methane
 Correct
The jovian planets share many characteristics in common such as approximate core size, severe weather, rings and numerous moons, and strong magnetic fields. Jupiter and Saturn have similar compositions of hydrogen and helium, while Uranus and Neptune are composed primarily of hydrogen compounds. Unlike the terrestrial planets, the jovian planets do not have solid surfaces.
 Jovian Planet Compositions and Densities
Learning Goal:
To understand how and why the jovian planets differ in composition and density.
https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1913837 13/17
approximately 10 Earth­mass core
solid surface under a thick th
     
 11/19/2018 Assignment 8
 Introduction. The jovian planets share many important characteristics, but they also have some important differences. Before you begin, study Figure 1, which shows the jovian planets to scale and provides some basic data about them. (Earth is shown for scale comparison.)
 Part A
Which of the following statements best describes the general pattern of composition among the four jovian planets?
ANSWER:
   Hint 1. Major categories of ingredients in planetary composition
The following table shows the four major categories of ingredient that were present in the solar nebula and from which planets are made. Note that these categories are abbreviated in Figure 1 as “H, He” for hydrogen and helium gas, and “H compounds” for hydrogen compounds.
    Examples
  Typical Condensation Temperature
   Relative Abundance (by mass)
   Hydrogen and Helium Gas
  hydrogen, helium
   do not condence in nebula
    98%
   Hydrogen Compounds
water ( ), methane ( ), ammonia ( )
 <150 K
  1.4%
   Rock
 various minerals
  500­1300 K
   0.4%
 Metal
 iron, nickel, aliminum
   1000­1600 K
   0.2%
Uranus and Neptune contain relatively more rock and hydrogen compounds than Jupiter and Saturn.
All four planets have essentially the same composition.
Jupiter is made mostly of hydrogen, Saturn is made mostly of helium, Uranus is made mostly of hydrogen compounds, and Neptune is made mostly of rock.
Jupiter is made mostly of hydrogen and helium, while the other three jovian planets are made mostly of hydrogen compounds.
 Correct
As the figure shows, Jupiter and Saturn are made mostly of hydrogen and helium, while Uranus and Neptune are primarily made of hydrogen compounds — such as water (H2O), methane (CH4), and ammonia (NH3) — along with a substantial relative amount of rock.
    https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1913837 14/17
4HC
O2H
3HN

 11/19/2018 Assignment 8
 Part B
Look at the average densities of the jovian planets given in Figure 1. Can you identify a trend in jovian planet densities with mass or distance from the Sun?
ANSWER:
  The more massive the planet, the lower the density.
The more massive the planet, the higher the density.
There is no clear trend in the densities with mass or distance. The densities increase in order of distance from the Sun.
The densities decrease in order of distance from the Sun.
       Correct
There is no obvious trend in the average densities of the jovian planets. For example, Jupiter is the nearest and most massive of the four planets, but it is the second­highest in average density. The lack of a clear trend tells us that we need to look deeper at the nature of these planets in order to understand their densities.
Part C
Which of the following statements best explains why the densities of Uranus and Neptune are higher than that of Saturn, even though Saturn is much more massive?
 ANSWER:
 They are at greater distances from the Sun.
Their interiors are more compressed due to stronger gravity. They have higher masses.
They have stronger magnetic fields.
They have a higher proportion of hydrogen compounds and rock.
      Hint 1. Densities of major ingredients in planetary composition
Recall that planets are made from four major categories of ingredients, shown in the table below. In general, the densities of the ingredients in the table increase from top to bottom; metals are the most dense, and hydrogen and helium gas are the least dense. Consider how this trend in the densities of the different materials would be expected to affect the densities of the jovian planets.
    Examples
  Typical Condensation Temperature
   Relative Abundance (by mass)
   Hydrogen and Helium Gas
  hydrogen, helium
   do not condence in nebula
    98%
   Hydrogen Compounds
water ( ), methane ( ), ammonia ( )
 <150 K
  1.4%
   Rock
 various minerals
  500­1300 K
   0.4%
 Metal
 iron, nickel, aliminum
   1000­1600 K
   0.2%
 Correct
At similar temperature and pressure, hydrogen compounds and rock are much higher in density than hydrogen and helium. The internal conditions in the jovian planets are similar enough so that composition has a major effect on average density. Uranus and Neptune are higher in density than because they are made primarily of higher­density hydrogen compounds and rock.
 Part D
Which of the following best explains why Jupiter’s density is higher than Saturn's?
https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1913837 15/17
4HC
O2H
3HN

 11/19/2018 Assignment 8
ANSWER:
 Jupiter is more massive than Saturn.
Jupiter has a higher proportion of hydrogen compounds and rock than Saturn. Jupiter has a stronger magnetic field than Saturn.
Jupiter is closer to the Sun than Saturn.
       Hint 1. How does mass affect density?
Suppose that two planets have the exactly the same composition but very different masses. Which statement will be true? ANSWER:
 The more massive planet will have higher density.
The more massive planet will have lower density.
As long as the compositions are the same, both planets will have equal density.
    Correct
Because Jupiter and Saturn have nearly identical composition, Jupiter’s higher density indicates that its interior is more compressed than Saturn’s. This greater compression is due to gravity, which is stronger for Jupiter because of its greater mass.
Part E
Based on the leading scientific theory of solar system formation, which of the following statements best explains why Uranus and Neptune have a significantly different composition than Jupiter and Saturn?
 ANSWER:
  The lower masses of Uranus and Neptune allowed more of their hydrogen and helium gas to escape into space.
The lower temperatures at the locations of Uranus and Neptune allowed more material to condense into solid form into solid form. Jupiter and Saturn formed closer to the Sun, where there was more hydrogen and helium gas and less hydrogen compounds and rock. Jupiter and Saturn captured more gas from the solar nebula than Uranus and Neptune.
     Hint 1. How did the jovian planets form?
Which of the following best describes the leading model for the formation of the jovian planets? ANSWER:
 Accretion built solid planetesimals of rock and ice with about 10 times the mass of Earth, and the gravity of these planetesimals then pulled in hydrogen and helium gas from the surrounding nebula.
Huge balls of gas formed from the solar nebula, which then differentiated so that heavier ingredients sunk to the center while lighter gases escaped into space.
Each planet formed with a composition that reflected the general composition of the solar nebula at its particular distance from the Sun.
   https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1913837 16/17

 11/19/2018 Assignment 8
 Score Summary:
Your score on this assignment is 90.1%.
You received 23.42 out of a possible total of 26 points.
 Correct
Accretion is thought to have occurred more rapidly in the denser regions of the solar nebula that were closer to the Sun. Therefore, although all four jovian planets captured hydrogen and helium gas from the solar nebula around similar­mass planetesimals (made of hydrogen compounds and rock), Jupiter and Saturn had more time to capture this gas. As a result, Jupiter and Saturn accreted so much hydrogen and helium gas that these ingredients ended up dominating their composition. In contrast, Uranus and Neptune were left with compositions dominated by hydrogen compounds and rock.
https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1913837 17/17

 11/25/2018 Assignment 9
Assignment 9
Due: 9:00am on Monday, November 26, 2018
You will receive no credit for items you complete after the assignment is due. Grading Policy
  Problem 11.29
Choose the best answer.
 Part A
Why is Jupiter denser than Saturn? ANSWER:
  It has a larger proportion of rock and metal.
It has a larger proportion of hydrogen.
Its higher mass and gravity compress its interior.
   Correct
 Problem 11.34
Choose the best answer.
 Part A
Which moon shows evidence of rainfall and erosion by some liquid substance? ANSWER:
  Europa
Titan Ganymede
   Correct
 Problem 11.33
Choose the best answer.
 Part A
What is unusual about Triton? ANSWER:
https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1914979 1/10

 11/25/2018 Assignment 9
  Correct
It orbits its planet backward.
It does not keep the same face toward its planet. It is the only moon with its own rings.
 Chapter 11 Question 29
 Part A
Why do astronomers believe Triton may have been a planet that was captured by Neptune? ANSWER:
  It has an atmosphere and a measurable greenhouse effect.
It orbits Neptune in the opposite direction of Neptune's rotation.
It is colder than any other moon or planet.
It undergoes seasonal changes.
It is too large to have been formed in the jovian nebula that formed Neptune.
     Correct
 Chapter 11 Question 25
 Part A
What is the most abundant gas in Titan's atmosphere? ANSWER:
   https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1914979 2/10

 11/25/2018 Assignment 9
  Correct
argon
oxygen
nitrogen
hydrogen compounds methane
 Chapter 11 Question 23
 Part A
Which of the following is not due to tidal forces? ANSWER:
  the grooved terrain of Enceladus (a moon of Saturn)
the rings of Saturn
the synchronous rotation of the Moon around Earth the volcanos on Io (a moon of Jupiter)
the backward orbit of Triton (a moon of Neptune)
     Correct
 Chapter 11 Question 21
 Part A
What is the most important reason why an icy moon is more likely to be geologically active than a rocky moon of the same size?
ANSWER:
     https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1914979 3/10

 11/25/2018 Assignment 9
  Correct
 Ice is affected by tidal forces to a greater extent than rock.
Ice has a lower melting point than rock.
Ice contains more radioactive elements than rock. Ice is less dense than rock.
Ice is less rigid than rock.
Visual Activity: Rings of Saturn
Click on the image below to launch the video: Rings of Saturn. Once you have watched the entire video, answer the graded follow­up questions on the right. You can watch the video again at any point.
   Part A
Saturn’s rings are composed of __________. ANSWER:
  gas from the early solar system
a series of solid concentric circles
lots of individual particles of ice and rock
parts of Saturn’s upper atmosphere being vented into space
     Correct
Although Saturn’s rings appear solid when viewed from Earth, they are actually made of countless icy particles ranging in size from dust grains to small boulders.
 Part B
     https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1914979 4/10

 11/25/2018 Assignment 9
Saturn’s rings look bright because __________.
 ANSWER:
 light from the Sun reflects off the material in the rings
the material in the rings is hot and creates its own light light from Saturn reflects off the material in the rings
    Correct
Saturn’s rings look bright because icy particles in the rings reflect (scatter) sunlight.
Hint 1. If Saturn’s rings consisted only of chunks of coal, how would they appear when viewed from Earth? If Saturn’s rings consisted only of chunks of coal, they would appear _____.
ANSWER:
  brighter
darker red hot
   Part C
Which of the following statements correctly describes the motion of the particles in Saturn’s rings?
ANSWER:
 Hint 1. According to Kepler’s third law, what is the relationship between orbital period and orbital radius? Kepler’s third law tells us that __________.
ANSWER:
  all planets orbit the Sun at the same speed
planets nearer to the Sun orbit at higher speed than planets farther from the Sun planets nearer to the Sun orbit at slower speed than planets farther from the Sun
  https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1914979 5/10

 11/25/2018 Assignment 9
  Correct
In accord with Kepler’s third law, particles closer to Saturn orbit at a faster speed than more distant particles.
Particles in all the rings hover motionlessly high above Saturn.
Particles in the inner rings orbit Saturn at a faster speed than particles in the outer rings. Particles in the inner rings orbit Saturn at a slower speed than particles in the outer rings. All the particles in the rings orbit Saturn with the same orbital period.
 Prelecture Reading Question 11.10
 Part A
Suppose you could float in space just a few meters above Saturn's rings. What would you see as you looked down on the rings?
ANSWER:
  Correct
Nothing—up close, the rings would be so completely invisible that you'd have no way to know they are there. They can be seen only from a distance.
countless icy particles, ranging in size from dust grains to large boulders
a solid, shiny surface, looking much like a piece of a DVD but a lot bigger
dozens of large "moonlets" made of metal and rock, each a few kilometers across
 Chapter 11 Question 35
 Part A
Which of the jovian planets have rings? ANSWER:
        https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1914979 6/10

 11/25/2018 Assignment 9
  Correct
Neptune
Jupiter
Uranus
Saturn
all of the above
 Chapter 11 Question 33
 Part A
What is the Cassini division of Saturn's rings? ANSWER:
  the imaginary circle marking the halfway point of Saturn's rings
a large gap, visible from Earth
a dark ring, visible from Earth, composed of dark, dusty particles
the most opaque ring of Saturn, made of highly reflective ice particles the widest ring of Saturn, located between two large ring gaps
     Correct
 Chapter 11 Question 32
 Part A
Planetary rings are ANSWER:
     https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1914979 7/10

 11/25/2018 Assignment 9
 Correct
 orbiting in the equatorial plane of their planet.
composed of a large number of individual particles that orbit their planet in accord with Kepler's third law. known to exist for all of the jovian planets.
nearer to their planet than any of the planet's large moons.
all of the above
 Chapter 11 Question 31
 Part A
Why are Saturn's rings so thin? ANSWER:
  The "gap" moons shepherd the particles and maintain its thin profile.
Any particle in the ring with an orbital tilt would collide with other ring particles, flattening its orbit. Solar radiation pressure keeps particles pressed into the rings.
The current thinness is a short­lived phenomenon that is special to this time.
Saturn's gravity prevents particles from migrating upwards out of the rings.
     Correct
 Chapter 11 Question 30
 Part A
How thick are Saturn's rings from top to bottom? ANSWER:
     https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1914979 8/10

 11/25/2018 Assignment 9
  Correct
a few tens of meters
a few tens of thousands of kilometers a few million kilometers
a few hundred kilometers
a few kilometers
 Prelecture Reading Question 7.09
 Part A
Robotic spacecraft have different levels of complexity, which contributes to overall cost. Which of the following types of missions are likely to be the cheapest?
ANSWER:
 flybys
sample return missions orbiters
lander
     Correct
 Chapter 7 Question 49
 Part A
What is the first spacecraft to fly by Pluto? ANSWER:
     https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1914979 9/10

 11/25/2018 Assignment 9
   Correct
Score Summary:
Your score on this assignment is 100%.
You received 16 out of a possible total of 16 points.
Hubble Space Telescope
Curiosity
New Horizons Cassini Galileo orbiter
     https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1914979 10/10

  11/28/2018 Assignment 10
Assignment 10
Due: 9:00am on Monday, December 3, 2018
You will receive no credit for items you complete after the assignment is due. Grading Policy
  Chapter 13 Question 2
 Part A
Approximately how many other planetary systems have been discovered to date? ANSWER:
  tens
millions
hundreds thousands
tens of thousands
     Correct
 Chapter 13 Question 3
 Part A
Which of the following methods has led to the most discoveries of massive planets orbiting near their parent stars? ANSWER:
  detecting the starlight reflected off the planet
detecting the gravitational effect of an orbiting planet by looking for the Doppler shifts in the star's spectrum detecting the infrared light emitted by the planet
detecting the shift of the star's position against the sky due to the planet's gravitational pull
detecting a planet ejected from a binary star system
     Correct
 Chapter 13 Question 5
 Part A
How much brighter is a Sun­like star than the reflected light from a planet orbiting around it? ANSWER:
  a hundred times brighter
a billion times brighter
a thousand times brighter a million times brighter
ten thousand times brighter
     https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1915371 1/18

 11/28/2018 Assignment 10
Correct
 Chapter 13 Question 4
  Part A
Most of the planets discovered around other stars ANSWER:
  are less massive than Earth and orbit very far from the star.
are more massive than Earth and orbit very far from the star. are less massive than Earth and orbit very close to the star. are more massive than Earth and orbit very close to the star. are found around neutron stars.
     Correct
 Chapter 13 Question 8
 Part A
Planets detected via the Doppler technique have been mostly ANSWER:
  a wide range of masses, in edge­on orbits.
Jupiter­mass, in very close orbits. Earth­mass, in very close orbits. Earth­mass, in Earth­like orbits. Jupiter­mass, in Jupiter­like orbits.
     Correct
 Chapter 13 Question 9
 Part A
Current techniques can measure stellar motion to less than ANSWER:
https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1915371 2/18

 11/28/2018 Assignment 10
  Correct
walking speed.
orbital speed of Jupiter. running speed.
freeway speed.
cruising speed of an airplane.
 Chapter 13 Question 35
 Part A
Astronomers have discovered more planets around other stars than in our Solar System. ANSWER:
  True
False
  Correct
 Chapter 13 Question 38
 Part A
Planetary orbits that are face­on to our line of sight produce no Doppler shift in the stellar spectrum. ANSWER:
  True
False
  Correct
 Chapter 13 Question 45
 Part A
Multiple planets have been identified around other stars via the transit technique. ANSWER:
  True
False
  Correct
     https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1915371 3/18

 11/28/2018 Assignment 10
 Chapter 13 Question 48
 Part A
The total amount of light from a star­planet system drops when the planet goes behind the star. ANSWER:
  True
False
  Correct
 Prelecture Reading Question 13.01
 Part A
What is an extrasolar planet? ANSWER:
  a planet that is considered an "extra," in that it was not needed for the formation of its solar system
a planet that is extra large compared to what we'd expect a planet that is larger than the Sun
a planet that orbits a star that is not our own Sun
    Correct
 Prelecture Reading Question 13.02
 Part A
The first confirmed detections of extrasolar planets occurred in ____________. ANSWER:
  the mid­17th century
the mid­20th century 2011
the 1990s
    Correct
 Prelecture Reading Question 13.03
 Part A
Why do we say that the Doppler technique gives the planet's "minimum mass"? ANSWER:
https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1915371 4/18

 11/28/2018 Assignment 10
 Correct
 The size of the Doppler shift that we detect depends on knowing the star's mass, which can be very uncertain.
Doppler measurements are very difficult, producing noisy data that often cause astronomers to underestimate a planet's mass. Extrasolar planets are always increasing in mass.
The size of the Doppler shift that we detect depends on whether the planet's orbit is tilted.
 Problem 13.5
 Part A
Choose the correct statement describing the Doppler method. ANSWER:
 Correct
  The Doppler technique watches for tiny movements of a star against the background of other stars. It’s best for detecting massive planets with close­in orbits. It detects planets in all orbit orientations except face­on. It requires large telescopes, and it provides only minimum mass when orbital inclination to Earth is unknown.
The Doppler technique watches for movement in stars by looking for periodic Doppler shifts. It’s best for detecting massive planets that orbit far from their stars, even though distant planets take longer to orbit. Current technology limits its use to very rare cases. It works best for nearby stars.
The Doppler technique watches for movement in stars by looking for periodic Doppler shifts. It’s best for detecting massive planets with close­in orbits. It detects planets in all orbit orientations except face­on. It requires large telescopes, and it provides only minimum mass when orbital inclination to Earth is unknown.
The Doppler technique watches for tiny movements of a star against the background of other stars. It’s best for detecting massive planets that orbit far from their stars, even though distant planets take longer to orbit. Current technology limits its use to very rare cases. It works best for nearby stars.
Part B
Choose the correct statement representing the evidence that the planet orbiting 51 Pegasi is a hot Jupiter. ANSWER:
 Correct
 51 Pegasi is a planet whose orbital period is so large (50 years) that it must lie incredibly close to its star. Furthermore, the size of the stellar Doppler wobble is so large that it must be caused by a planet with at least a mass of 0.6 .
51 Pegasi is a planet whose orbital period is so short (4 days) that it must lie incredibly close to its star. Furthermore, the size of the stellar Doppler wobble is so large that it must be caused by a planet with at least a mass of 0.6 .
51 Pegasi is a planet whose orbital period is so short (4 days) that it must lie incredibly far from its star. Furthermore, the size of the stellar Doppler wobble is so small that it must be caused by a planet with at least a mass of 0.6 .
51 Pegasi is a planet whose orbital period is so large (50 years) that it must lie incredibly far from its star. Furthermore, the size of the stellar Doppler wobble is so small that it must be caused by a planet with at least a mass of 0.6 .
 Problem 13.30
Choose the best answer.
 Part A
What fraction of extrasolar planets could in principle be detected by the transit method? ANSWER:
            https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1915371 5/18
JM JM JM JM

 11/28/2018 Assignment 10
  Correct
100%
about 20%
less than about 1%
 Problem 13.31
Choose the best answer.
 Part A
Which one of the following can the transit method tell us about a planet? ANSWER:
  its mass
its size
the eccentricity of its orbit
   Correct
 Problem 13.32
Choose the best answer.
 Part A
To determine a planet's average density, we can use ANSWER:
  the transit and Doppler methods together.
the transit method alone.
the astrometric and Doppler methods together.
   Correct
 Problem 13.43
 Part A
What are the strengths and limitations of the Doppler method? ANSWER:
   https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1915371 6/18

 11/28/2018 Assignment 10
 Correct
  The Doppler technique has the main advantage of being able to detect planets in a wide range of orbits—as long as the orbit is not face­on. Its disadvantage is that it can yield only the planet’s size and orbital properties.
The Doppler technique has the main advantage of being able to detect planets in a wide range of orbits—as long as the orbit is face­on. Its disadvantage is that it can yield only the planet’s mass and orbital properties.
The Doppler technique has the main advantage of being able to detect planets in a wide range of orbits—as long as the orbit is face­on. Its disadvantage is that it can yield only the planet’s size and orbital properties.
The Doppler technique has the main advantage of being able to detect planets in a wide range of orbits—as long as the orbit is not face­on. Its disadvantage is that it can yield only the planet’s mass and orbital properties.
Part B
What are the strengths and limitations of the transit method? ANSWER:
 Correct
  The transit method has the advantage of yielding a planet’s size. Its disadvantage is that few planets have the necessary orbital alignment to even be detectable.
The transit method has the advantage of yielding a planet’s size. Its disadvantage is that few planets have the necessary orbital speed to even be detectable.
The transit method has the advantage of yielding a planet’s mass. Its disadvantage is that few planets have the necessary orbital alignment to even be detectable.
The transit method has the advantage of yielding a planet’s mass. Its disadvantage is that few planets have the necessary orbital speed to even be detectable.
Part C
What kinds of planets are easiest to detect with each method? ANSWER:
  Both techniques are most sensitive to large planets far from their stars.
Both techniques are most sensitive to large planets close to their stars.
The Doppler technique is most sensitive to large planets close to their stars. The transit method is most sensitive to large planets far from their stars. The transit method is most sensitive to large planets close to their stars. Doppler technique is most sensitive to large planets far from their stars.
    Correct
 Part D
Are there certain planets that each method cannot detect, even if the planets are very large? If so, why cannot they be detected? ANSWER:
  Any planet is detectable by at least one of these two methods.
Planets that do not have necessary orbital alignment cannot be detected. Planets that do not have necessary speed cannot be detected.
Planets that are too close to their stars cannot be detected.
    Correct
        https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1915371 7/18

 11/28/2018 Assignment 10
 Part E
Choose the correct description of advantages gained if a planet can be detected by both methods. ANSWER:
  If a planet can be detected by both methods, then we can find its density—an indication of its age.
If a planet can be detected by both methods, then we can find its mass—an indication of its age.
If a planet can be detected by both methods, then we can find its mass—an indication of its composition. If a planet can be detected by both methods, then we can find its density—an indication of its composition.
    Correct
 Ranking Task: Velocity Curves for Stars with a Single Orbiting Planet
 Part A
The following four graphs show the velocities, toward and away from Earth, of four identical stars. Assume that all four stars have extrasolar planets orbiting them at the same distance, and that the velocities are inferred by measuring Doppler shifts in the spectra of the stars. Rank the graphs from left to right based on the amount of orbital Doppler shift observed in each star’s spectrum, from smallest to largest.
ANSWER:
 Hint 1. How is a Doppler shift related to velocity? A larger Doppler shift means __________. ANSWER:
Hint 2. Why do the graphs wiggle up and down?
Notice that each of the four graphs shows a star’s velocity going up and down between positive and negative values. What does this tell you? ANSWER:
  a smaller velocity
a larger velocity
a larger orbital period
   The star is moving erratically and has a positive velocity when its speed is very high and a negative velocity when it is moving at a very slow speed.
The star is moving in an orbit and has a positive velocity in the half of the orbit in which it is moving away from Earth and a negative velocity in the half of the orbit in which it is moving toward Earth.
The graphs must be in error, because a star cannot have a negative velocity.
   https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1915371 8/18

 11/28/2018 Assignment 10
   Reset
Help
                       Smallest Doppler shift Largest Doppler shift
                          Correct
Notice that the rankings are in order of increasing velocity, because larger Doppler shifts mean larger velocity. The velocity wiggles up and down as the star orbits the center of mass of the star system. The velocity is negative in the part of the orbit where the star is coming toward us (so that the Doppler shift is toward the blue end of the spectrum) and positive in the part of the orbit where the star is moving away from us (so that the Doppler shift is toward the red end of the spectrum). The velocity is zero twice each orbit, at the two points at which the star’s motion is only across our line of sight.
Part B
The following four graphs show the velocities, toward and away from Earth, of four identical stars (the same graphs shown in Part A). Assume that all four stars have extrasolar planets orbiting them at the same distance. Rank the graphs from left to right based on the amount of time that it takes the extrasolar planet orbiting each star to complete one orbit, from shortest to longest. If you think that two (or more) of the graphs should be ranked as equal, drag one on top of the other(s) to show this equality.
ANSWER:
  Hint 1. How can you read a star’s orbital period from its velocity graph?
Each of the four graphs shows a star’s velocity increasing and decreasing as it orbits around the center of mass of the star system. What part of the graph
tells you the star’s orbital period around this center of mass? ANSWER:
Hint 2. How does the star’s orbital period relate to the planet’s orbital period?
In all four cases, we are told to assume that the star is responding to the gravitational tug of a single orbiting planet. Given that fact, the orbital period of the
planet must be __________. ANSWER:
  the maximum height of the velocity curve
the time from one peak to the next peak of the velocity curve.
the time from a peak of the velocity curve to the bottom of the trough that follows
    equal to the orbital period of the star around the system’s center of mass.
exactly half the orbital period of the star around the system’s center of mass
the product of the star’s velocity and the star’s orbital period as it orbits the system’s center of mass
  https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1915371 9/18

 11/28/2018 Assignment 10
   Reset
Help
                       Shortest amount of time Longest amount of time
                        Correct
The time to complete one “wiggle” is the orbital period of the star, which you can see is the same (20 days) for all four cases shown. This must also be the orbital period of the planet, because it is the mutual gravity between the star and planet that makes both of them orbit. Note that it should make sense that all four planets have the same orbital period, because the problem states that all four stars have the same mass and are orbited by a planet at the same distance; therefore, in accord with Kepler’s laws, the planets must all have the same orbital period.
Part C
The following four graphs show the velocities, toward and away from Earth, of four identical stars (the same graphs shown in Parts A and B). Assume that all four identical stars have extrasolar planets orbiting them at the same distance. Rank the graphs from left to right based on the mass of the extrasolar planet that orbits the star, from smallest to largest.
 ANSWER:
 Hint 1. How does a planet’s mass affect the orbit of its star?
In all four cases, we are told to assume that the star is responding to the gravitational tug of a single planet, and that all the stars are identical and all the planets are at the same orbital distance. Given that fact, what will be different if one star has a planet that is more massive than the planet orbiting another star?
ANSWER:
  The more massive planet will cause its star to take longer to complete an orbit.
The more massive planet will cause its star to take less time to complete an orbit.
The more massive planet will cause its star to move around the center of mass at a faster speed. The more massive planet will cause its star to move around the center of mass at a slower speed.
   https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1915371 10/18

  11/28/2018 Assignment 10
   Reset
Help
                       Smallest Mass Largest Mass
                          Correct
Notice that the graphs are ranked in order of velocity, because a more massive planet exerts a larger force on its companion star and therefore causes it to orbit the center of mass with a greater velocity.
Chapter 13 Question 47
  Part A
The signature of a planet is largest in transit measurements when the planet and star are lined up along the line of sight to the telescope. ANSWER:
  True
False
  Correct
 Chapter 13 Question 14
 Part A
The transit method of planet detection works best for ANSWER:
  small planets in edge­on orbits around big stars.
Earth­like planets in any orbit.
big planets in face­on orbits around small stars. big planets in edge­on orbits around small stars. small planets in face­on orbits around big stars.
     https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1915371 11/18

 11/28/2018 Assignment 10
Correct
 Chapter 13 Question 17
  Part A
Which planet can we see occasionally transit across the face of the Sun? ANSWER:
  Uranus
Mercury Jupiter
Mars
all of the above
     Correct
 Chapter 13 Question 23
 Part A
The depth of the dip in a star's brightness due to the transit of a planet depends most directly on ANSWER:
  the planet's density.
the planet's mass.
the size of the planet's orbit.
the eccentricity of the planet's orbit. the planet's size.
     Correct
 Chapter 13 Question 40
 Part A
A planet's size can be determined by observing its transit across a star. ANSWER:
  True
False
  Correct
https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1915371 12/18

 11/28/2018 Assignment 10
 Chapter 13 Question 16
 Part A
The Doppler technique only provides a measure of the minimum mass of a planet because ANSWER:
  only a small part of the planet's motion is measured.
only the motion of star toward the observer is measured, not the full motion.
without a transit observation, the size and therefore density of the planet is unknown. we do not know the exact composition of the planet.
we do not have the technology to make a direct image of a planet yet.
     Correct
 Chapter 13 Question 21
 Part A
A planet is detected via the Doppler technique. The repeating pattern of the stellar motion tells us ANSWER:
  the planet's size.
the orbital eccentricity of the planet. the planet's mass.
the planet's density.
the orbital period of the planet.
     Correct
 Chapter 13 Question 24
 Part A
Why are many of the newly detected extrasolar planets called "hot Jupiters"? ANSWER:
  The planets tend to be detected around more massive, hotter stars than our Sun.
Their masses are similar to Jupiter but they are very close to the central star and therefore hot. The discovery of other planets is very exciting.
Their masses are similar to Jupiter but their composition is similar to Mercury.
Their masses and composition are similar to what we would expect if Jupiter were hotter.
     Correct
https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1915371 13/18

 11/28/2018 Assignment 10
 Prelecture Narrated Figure: The Planetary Mass­Radius Diagram
First, launch the video below. Then, close the video window and answer the questions at right. You can watch the video again at any point.
A larger version of the image below can be obtained by clicking on the image.
    Part A
Three planets are circled on the planetary mass­radius diagram shown at left. Rank these planets, along with Earth and Jupiter, in order of mass, from highest to lowest.
Rank from highest mass to lowest mass. To rank items as equivalent, overlap them.
ANSWER:
https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1915371 14/18

 11/28/2018 Assignment 10
 Correct
Before you continue, be sure you understand how you can easily read the above answer from the graph.
    Reset
Help
                            Highest Mass Lowest Mass
                               Part B
Consider the same set of planets as in Part A. Rank these planets in order of radius, from largest to smallest.
Rank from largest radius to smallest radius. To rank items as equivalent, overlap them.
ANSWER:
https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1915371 15/18

 11/28/2018 Assignment 10
 Correct
Before you continue, be sure you understand how you can easily read the above answer from the graph.
    Reset
Help
                            Largest Radius Smallest Radius
                               Part C
Consider the same set of planets as in Part A, but without Earth. Rank these planets in order of average density, from highest to lowest.
Rank from highest density to lowest density. To rank items as equivalent, overlap them.
ANSWER:
https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1915371 16/18

  11/28/2018 Assignment 10
   Reset
Help
                       Highest Density Lowest Density
                          Correct
You should also now see why this question left Earth off the ranking list: Both Earth and COROT­14B are slightly above/left of the dashed curve representing the density of iron, making it difficult to tell which one is higher in density. In contrast, all the other answers should be fairly obvious once you understand the dashed density curves. (In case you are wondering, the density of COROT­14B is slightly higher than that of Earth.)
 Part D
Which of the following best explains why Kepler 10b is called a “super­Earth”? ANSWER:
  It is composed primarily of superconducting metals.
It is smaller in radius than Earth.
It has similar composition to Earth, but is more massive. It is similar composition to Earth, but is larger in radius.
      Correct
Super­Earths is a name given to planets with compositions similar to Earth (rock and metal) but that are more massive (and often larger in radius) than Earth.
 Part E
Notice that the planets with the largest radii all fall in the category of “hot Jupiters,” which means Jupiter­like planets that are hot because they orbit close to their stars. Which of the following best explains why these planets are large in radius?
ANSWER:
  Their high temperatures mean they contain more lightweight hydrogen gas.
Planets close to their stars can only be made of low­density materials. Their high temperatures make their atmospheres expand to larger radii. Their high temperatures give them very high average densities.
    https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1915371 17/18

 11/28/2018 Assignment 10
  Correct
For planets made mostly of hydrogen and helium, high temperature causes their atmospheres to expand to larger sizes, which is why the radii of hot Jupiters tend to be quite large.
Prelecture Reading Question 13.05
  Part A
How do we use velocity curves (obtained from spectroscopy) to show that some extrasolar planets are close to their host stars? ANSWER:
Score Summary:
Your score on this assignment is 98.4%.
You received 36.4 out of a possible total of 37 points.
  The velocity curve of the extrasolar planet shows periods much shorter than a year.
The velocity curve of the host star shows periods much shorter than a year.
The velocity curve of the host star shows periods much longer than a year.
The velocity curve of the extrasolar planet shows periods much longer than a year.
    Correct
https://session.masteringastronomy.com/myct/assignmentPrintView?assignmentID=1915371 18/18

a
about
above absorption academic accepted
access according account
acting
activity
actual
added
age
ago
aid
aids
alarm
all
allowed
alpha
also
always
am
ammonia amount amounts
an
and
angular announcements answer
answers antenna
any
anywhere apparent appear
appears appropriate
are
around
arts
as
asteroid asteroids astronaut astronomers astronomical at atmosphere atmospheres atoms attention
AU average away
axes
axis
bag balance ball
be because been before begin behind believe below bench besides between beyond big
bigger billion blackbody blocked blows booklet boosts both boxes bright brightness bring bubble
bubbles
but
by
Callisto
can
cancel
cannot captured carbon Cassini caused
causes
cell
Centauri centre
change changed changes changing charged check
choice
circles
circuit circumstances close
closer closest cloud
clouds
CO2
cold
colder coldest collapses collect collide collision combination come
comet
comets common communications
compare compared composition compositions consequence conservation consists constellations contain contains content continental continued conversation core
cores correct could count crater cratered craters create current cycle dark darkly day
deal December decreases deduced deep degrees density depend depending depends describes description desk
detect determined determines

devices diameter did
didn’t differ difference different dioxide direction directly disappear discover disk distance distances distant distinction do
does doesn't done doppler down
drift
due duration during
dust
dwarf
e.g.
each
early
earth
east eastward eccentric eccentricity eclipse ecliptic edge-on effect electronic electrons elliptical
end
ended energy enough entire entirely environment equilibrium erosion escape escapes escorted Europa
event eventually every evidence exam examinations except
exist exoplanet exoplanets expected experiences explain explained explanation extra
face face-on facilitator fact
facts faculty
fade
fair
far
faster feeling Fermi
few
field
fill
final
find finish fire
first fission flyby following for
force forces form formation formed forming four
from front
full furthest fusion Galilean gas
gases generally generate geological get
gets
giants global
goes gravitation gravity great greater Greeks greenhouse grows habitable had
hall halted hand
handed happen hard has have heat helium help hero hidden high higher highest highly hint
his
hitting
hold horizon horizontally hot
hotter hours
how Hubble human hydrogen hydrostatic ice
if
ill
imaged images impact important impossible in inclinations inclusive increase increased indicated indirect information

infrared input
inside instructions interior interiors internal into
Io
iron
is
isn’t
it
its
it’s
jacket Jovian June Jupiter just Kepler know knowing laboratory large larger
last law laws least leaving left legibly less
let level levels light like lines liquid list listed little
long longer longest look lot
low
lowest lunar
made Magellan magnetic main
major make making many
mark
marks
Mars
mass masses massive material materials may measurable measure mentioned Mercury messenger methane method methods midnight milky missing mission mix mixture model molecular momentum moon moons
more
most
mostly
motion motions
move
movie
moving
much
multiple multiple-choice must
mystery name natural near nearly nebula nebular needs Neptune neutrinos never new night nitrogen no
none noon north not nothing now nuclear number object objects observe occur occurring occurs ocean
of off
offence
on
once
one
only opaque opportunity opposite options
or
orbit orbital orbited orbiting orbits order ordering other
our
out
outer outgassing output outside overhead oxygen page pages panels paper paradox parallax parent part particles parts
pass passes patches path period periods person phase

phases phone phones pieces
place
places
plane
planet planetesimals planets please
plus
Pluto
pm
pocket point
pole possess possible power powerful pressure probe probes produce produces product pronounced properly properties property proportion provided provides Ptolemy pull
quarter quarters question questions quick radiation radii radio
radius raise range rapidly rate
rates rather reactions realistic really reason recently recorded reduced refer relative releases relevant reminders resides resist result rises
rock rocks rotate rotated rotation run runaway same Saturn say scattering science searches seasonal see
seen
select semi-major semi-realistic sense
sets
shading shallow shape sharing sheet
shift
short short-answer shortest should
show shrinks side significant similar since
size
sky
slightly slow slower slowest smaller smart
so
solar someone sometimes sources space spacecraft spacecrafts spaces special specified spectrum speed speeds spherical spinning spins square standing star
stars
start started statements stellar
stop stopped straight strength strong strongest student study substantial such suffered sun
sunset
sure surface surfaces surprising surrounding surveyor system systems
tail
take
takes telescope telescopes temperature temperatures terrestrial test
than that the their then theory there these they

thick thicker thin thing third this those three through throws tidal tides time times tipped Titan
to
together
too
Toronto
total
towards transferred transit transits transmitter trap
travel
travels
Triton
true
tube
turn
two two-minute type
types ultraviolet unable unauthorized unchanged under undergoes understanding
unit universal universe university unrealistic unstable until
up
upon Uranus
use
used
using values vapour varying velocity Venus
very
view viewed virtually visible volcanic volcanoes warm
was watches water wavelength waves
way
we
weak
well
were
west westward what
when whenever whether which while
whose why
will
with within without wobble work would wouldn’t write writing written x-rays year years you younger your zodiac zone

  AST 101
THE SUN AND ITS NEIGHBOURS
ast101@astro.utoronto.ca
AST101|UofT|Prof.Netterfield&Prof.Gaensler| 2
 
 AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 3

   350,000 km
Credit: NASA
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 4

   Earth from Apollo 8, 1968
First picture of the Earth taken by human hands.
Credit: NASA
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 5

 Earth from Apollo 17, 1972
The last time anyone walked on the Moon.
First and only image of whole Earth taken by human hands.
Credit: NASA
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 6

    11.7 million km
Credit: NASA
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 7

   75 million km
Credit: NASA/JPL-Caltech/MSSS/TAMU
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 8

   1.5 billion km
Credit: NASA
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 9

   1.5 billion km
Credit: NASA
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 10

  Shrink the Universe by a factor of 10 Billion The sun will be 14 cm across
The Earth will be 1.3 mm across
The Earth will orbit 15 m from the scaled sun
Neptune will orbit
The nearest star will be: 4000 km from the scaled sun
450 m from the scaled sun
.
 AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 11

  The Nearest star has a planet that might have the right temperature for life!
But the nearest star is a long, long way away!
At the speed of the fastest spacecraft ever (60,000 km/hour) it would take
000 years to get there.
Space is really really big!
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 12
      76
12

 http://www.forestwander.com/the-sky/
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 13

 AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 14

  There are 200,000,000,000 stars in a Galaxy like ours. Around the number grains of sand in a dump truck.
Most have planets.
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 15

 Ultra Deep
Field (Hubble Space Telescope)
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 16

 Ultra Deep
Field (Hubble Space Telescope)
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 17

 Ultra Deep
Field (Hubble Space Telescope)
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 18

 Ultra Deep
Field (Hubble Space Telescope)
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 19

 Ultra Deep
Field (Hubble Space Telescope)
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 20

  Earth 66 million years ago.
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 21

  65 million years ago
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 22

  65 million years ago,
Earth burned
Credit: Cameron
   Strandberg
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 23

 R.I.P. dinosaurs
extinction rate (%)
Credit: Wikipedia
millions of years ago
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 24

 Earth seems vast and eternal...
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 25

 ...but from a cosmic perspective, Earth is tiny and temporary.
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 26

    Prof. Netterfield
I use balloon-borne telescopes to study the birth of new stars, clusters of galaxies and the beginning of the Universe.
Prof. Gaensler
I use radio telescopes to study interstellar magnets, cosmic explosions and the invisible gas
between the stars.
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 27

   Dr. MacDonald
I help manage the large courses in Astronomy, develop planetarium content, and give lots of planetarium shows. For my PhD I studied the ripples in spacetime from binary black holes.
Office: AB224 (50 St. George)
AST101|UofT|Dr.MacDonald| 28

  As part of this course, you will have a weekly one- hour tutorial
Sign up to AST101H1-F TUT**01 or TUT**02 (where ** are 01 through 15)
  AST101|UofT|Dr.MacDonald| 29

 First 2 weeks are planetarium shows!
Planetarium is located at 50 St. George, in the basement
Week 2 – TUT**01 has shows Week 3 – TUT**02 has shows
AST101|UofT|Dr.MacDonald| 30

 Regularly scheduled tutorials will begin on Week 4 (week of Sep. 24)
Please go to the room indicated in your timetable.
AST101|UofT|Dr.MacDonald| 31

  ©2016PearsonEducation AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 36
6th, 7th or 8th edition

   i>clicker or i>clicker+
or REEF (use REEF at own risk!) AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 37

 The clicker code for lectures
is AA
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 38

  Register your clicker ON Quercus
  If your clicker code has rubbed off, look for it in your battery compartment
  AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 39

  We will have clicker questions every class.
They start counting for marks on Tuesday.
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 41
 
  Clicking someone else’s clicker for them, or asking someone else to do it for you is a serious academic offence (i.e., cheating!).
Typical penalty: everyone involved will get a 0 for all clickers points in the course and be reported to the university.
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 42
 
  There are weekly online assignments on
“Mastering Astronomy”
The first two are due Sep 17 at 9:00 am
To use Mastering Astronomy, you need a new access code.
Instructions will be on Quercus under “Assignments”
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 43
 
  Observing Projects
   AST101|UofT|MichaelWilliams| 44

  Observing Project Help
 Observing Sessions – targeted at specific projects
Equipment available at the observing sessions Discussion Board
AST101|UofT|MichaelWilliams| 45

  Component
Lecture clicker quizzes
Tutorial clicker quizzes
“Mastering Astronomy” assignments
Term Project Midterm Final Exam
% of Final Grade
8% 8%
5%
12%
22% or 32%
45% or 35%
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 46
 
 We will automatically drop:
4 missed classes
2 missed tutorials
2 missed assignments
No notes or excuses needed.
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 47

  Read the Course Outline, Term Schedule and FAQ on Quercus (q.utoronto.ca)
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 48

  Use the Course Calendar on Quercus for times of lectures, office hours, midterm and project due dates
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 49
 
  Please post questions on the discussion boards on Quercus!
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 50
  
  Lecture notes will be posted a day or two before class on Quercus
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 51
  
 For confidential matters only:
ast101@astro.utoronto.ca
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 52

 Exclusions
You cannot receive credit for this course if you have taken:
• AST 121, AST 221
• CIV 100, CIV 101, CIV 102
• Any 100- or higher-series CHM or PHY course, either previously or concurrently with this class, except PHY 100, PHY 101, PHY 201, PHY 202, PHY 205, PHY 207, CHM 101
• Questions? Contact admin@astro.utoronto.ca
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 53

  AST 101
THE SUN AND ITS NEIGHBOURS
ast101@astro.utoronto.ca
(Thanks to Prof. Michael Reid for material)
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 1
 
 Announcements / Reminders
• The clicker code for lectures is AA
• Tutorials ending in 01: planetarium shows
start this week
• Tutorials ending in 02: planetarium next week
• Distraction-free zone: Section A
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 2

 Help Your Fellow Students Achieve Academic Success!
• Students living with disabilities rely on
volunteer notetakers
• Volunteering will improve your own attendance and comprehension
• Sign up at UofT.me/note-takers
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 3

  Assignments
• DoneonMasteringAstronomy.SeeQuercusfordetails. There are TWO short ones posted now, both due Sep 17.
• Whenyouregister,putinyourUTORid.Doinganything else may result in loss of all assignment marks.
  Smithja4 991234567 smith@utoronto.ca
 AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 4

 Observing Projects
• DetailedinformationabouttobepostedonQuercus
• Worth12%ofyourfinalgrade
• 3% for Project Plan (submit online by September 26)
• 9% for full Project (submit online by November 26)
• ThereisawholeTAdevotedtohelpingyou
• Cangethelpwithsomeprojectsatobservingnights • Trymultipleprojects
• Donotleavethisuntilthelastmoment!
• Understandtherulesonacademicintegrity!
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 5

 Clicker Quiz – 30 seconds, not for marks
What does the term “Solar System” mean?
A. The Sun, the planets, and all of their moons
B. The planets and all of their moons, but not the Sun
C. The totality of all space, time, energy, and matter
D. Roughly 400 billion stars all orbiting a common centre
E. Billions of stars and planets distributed through space
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 49

 Clicker Quiz – 30 seconds, not for marks
What does the term “Universe” mean?
A. The Sun, the planets, and all of their moons
B. The planets and all of their moons, but not the Sun
C. The totality of all space, time, energy, and matter
D. Roughly 400 billion stars all orbiting a common centre
E. Billions of stars and planets distributed through space
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 50

 Our ‘Cosmic Address’
Credit:etsy.com AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 8
  Captain Malcolm Reynolds Serenity Valley
Hera, The Verse
Earth
Solar System Milky Way Galaxy Local Group Universe
CANADA
120

 Our ‘Cosmic Address’
Credit:etsy.com AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 9
  Captain Malcolm Reynolds Serenity Valley
Hera, The Verse
Earth
CANADA
120
our planetà our Solar Systemà
Solar System
our galaxy à Milky Way Galaxy
our galaxy clusterà the universeà
Local Group Universe

 However big you imagine space to be,
you are wrong. AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 10

 It’s much,
MUCH
bigger than that.
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 11

 Clicker Quiz – Not for Marks
Which pair of objects do you think are MOST different from one another in relative size?
A. A cell and a person
B. A person and the Earth
C. The Earth and our Solar System D. Our Solar System and our Galaxy
E. Our Galaxy and the observable universe
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 51

                                                         10-15m 10-10m 10-6m 1m 107m 1013m
proton atom cell person Earth Solar System
1021m
our Galaxy
1027m
observable Universe
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 13

 Clicker Quiz – 60 seconds
Which pair of objects do you think are MOST different from one another in relative size?
A. a person and an atom
B. a person and the Earth
C. the Earth and the Galaxy D. the Galaxy and a person E. the Universe and a person
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 52

  You are about 10 billion times taller than a single atom
10-15m 10-10m 10-6m 1m 107m
proton atom cell person Earth
1013m
Solar System
1021m
our Galaxy
1027m
observable Universe
                                                        AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 15

  You are about 10 billion times taller than a single atom
You are about a billion, billion, BILLION times smaller than the observable universe
                                                         10-15m 10-10m 10-6m
proton atom cell
1m 107m 1013m
person Earth Solar System
1021m
our galaxy
1027m
observable universe
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 16

     You are here
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 17

 Clicker Quiz – Discuss
I’m going to show you a picture of the Solar System. What aspects of the image are shown “to scale”? That is, which of the sizes and distances are correct, relative to one another?
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 18

 Our Solar System
(image credit: NASA)
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 19

  Clicker Quiz – 60 seconds
Which aspects of the image were on the correct relative scale?
A. The sizes of the planets relative to one another
B. The sizes of the planets relative to the Sun
C. Thedistancesbetweentheplanets
D. BothAandB
 E. BothBandC
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 53

 Our Solar System is HUGE and the vast majority of it is empty.*
*It’s not quite empty—tiny, tiny quantities of gas and dust fill the space
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 21

   approx 150,000,000,000 m
  AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 22

   approx 1.5 x 1011 m
  AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 23

 Are you tired of huge numbers yet?
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 24

 It’s hard to make sense of huge numbers, so we come up with new units of measurement that shrink the numbers.
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 25

   1AU
  AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 26

  1AU
= 1 Astronomical Unit
= 1.5 x 1011 m
= average distance
between Earth and the Sun
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 27
 
  Clicker Quiz – 60 seconds
Earth is 1 AU from the Sun. What is the maximum possible separation between Earth and Mars? (Hint: Mars is the next farthest planet from the Sun)
 A. 0.1AU B. 0.5AU C. 1 AU D. 1.5 AU E. 2.5AU
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 54

  0.7 AU (Venus)
1 AU (Earth)
         1.5 AU (Mars)
0.4 AU (Mercury)
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 29

 Clicker Question – Not for Marks
A ‘light year’ is a measure of:
A. speed
B. time
C. distance
D. brightness
E. light travel time
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 55

     Sun
41,746,980,000,000,000 m
nearest star
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 31

    1 “nearest star unit” ?
  Sun
nearest star
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 32

     Sun
4.4 light years
nearest star
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 33

  1 ly
= 1 light year
= 9.46 x 1012 km
= about 63,000 AU
= distance light travels
 in one year
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 34

   1 AU ≈ 8.3 light minutes
  AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 35

  Clicker Quiz – 60 seconds
Which of these phrases is correct?
A. The light we see from the Sun right now left the Sun 8.3 minutes ago
B. The Sun is 8.3 minutes from Earth
C. ThedistancebetweenEarthandtheSun is 8.3 light years
D. ThedistancebetweenEarthandtheSun is 8.3 minutes
 E. 1 AU is approximately 4.4 light years
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 56

 Names for Stuff
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 37

 Stars are balls of plasma which produce
energy by nuclear fusion.
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 38

    Planets are rocky, icy, or gassy,
and they don’t produce much energy.
AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Gaensler |
39

  Clicker Question – Not for Marks
Why is Pluto no longer considered a planet?
 A. It’s too small
B. It doesn’t have an atmosphere
C. Itsorbitisfullofotherstuff
D. ItorbitstoofarfromtheSun
E. It’s too icy
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 57

 In 2006, the International Astronomical Union (IAU) accepted a new definition of the term “planet”, adding one new criterion to the traditional definition:
1. Planets orbit stars directly (not other planets).
2. Planets must be massive enough for their own gravity to compress them into spherical shapes.
3. Planets must have cleared their orbits. That is, there can’t be a lot of other stuff orbiting the parent star in orbits very similar to the planet.
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 41

 Pluto can’t be a planet because its orbit is full of other objects (mainly comets)
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 42

 Objects which fail the definition of a planet on the last criterion are called dwarf planets.
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 43

     A moon is any large body
which orbits a planet.
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 44

  Clicker Quiz – 60 seconds
Titan is a rocky/icy object with an atmosphere and liquid on its surface. It is spherical in shape, has a clear orbit, and orbits Saturn. Titan is a:
 A. moon
B. asteroid
C. dwarf planet D. planet
E. star
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 58

  Titan is not a planet, but only because it orbits a planet. If it orbited the Sun directly (and in a clear orbit), we would call it a planet.
 AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 46

 Clicker Quiz – 60 seconds
Ceres orbits the Sun in the asteroid belt between Mars and Jupiter. It is large enough to be spherical. Ceres is a:
A. moon
B. asteroid
C. dwarf planet D. planet
E. star
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 59

 Get your clicker ready!
1. Press and hold the On/Off button until the Power indicator light begins flashing.
2. Enter the 2-character frequency code 'AA' using the buttons (A B C D) on the clicker.
For iClicker REEF:
• University of Toronto – St. George
• Course AST101FALL2018 – The Sun
and its Neighbours
 Practice Quiz
(Not for Marks)
A) world
B) de france C) guided D) bus
E) PGA
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 1

  AST 101
THE SUN AND ITS NEIGHBOURS
ast101
   @astro.utoronto.ca
AST101|UofT|Prof.Netterfield| 2

 Announcements / Reminders
• Planetarium shows instead of Tutorials this week and next week.
• Your first two Mastering Astronomy assignments are due on Sep 17
(A Pearson rep will be here after class)
• Check Quercus for info on the observing project (Project Plan will be due September 26)
AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield | 3

 A Tour of our Solar System
AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield | 4

 A solar system consists of a star orbited by planets, moons, and lots of debris (comets, asteroids, dust)*
* “Solar System” or “The Solar System” means our solar system; “solar system” or “star system” can be any such system.
AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield | 5

 AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield | 6

  AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield | 7

 The Inner Solar System:
Mercury, Venus, Earth, and Mars
AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield | 8

 The Outer Solar System:
Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus, Neptune, many dwarf planets & comets
AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield | 9

 Clicker Quiz
How many stars are there in our Solar System?
A. None
B. One
C. A few hundred billion
D. Too many to count
E. We cannot be sure yet
AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield | 10

 The Terrestrial planets
  Mercury
Venus
  NASA / © Calvin J. Hamilton
AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield | 11
Earth
Mars

 The Terrestrial planets
Venus
  Mercury
 Earth
Terrestrial means Earth-Like
 NASA / © Calvin J. Hamilton
AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield | 12
Mars

 Mercury
The Terrestrial planets
 Venus
• Small
• Rocky
• Thin or no
Atmosphere
• Few moons
• Made from
Heavy Elements
  Earth
 NASA / © Calvin J. Hamilton
AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield | 13
Mars

  The Jovian planets
 NASA / © Damien Peach
AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield | 14
Uranus
Neptune
Saturn
Jupiter

  Saturn
The Jovian planets
Jovian means Jupiter-Like
 Uranus
Neptune
Jupiter
NASA / © Damien Peach
AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield | 15

  Saturn
The Jovian planets
• Large
• Liquid + Gas
• Small Rocky
Core
• Many moons
• Light elements AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield | 16
 Uranus
Neptune
Jupiter
NASA / © Damien Peach

 Jupiter
Earth
AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield | 17
 
 Clicker Quiz
Compared to planets in the inner Solar System, planets in the outer Solar System generally:
A. aresmaller
B. havethinneratmospheres
C. are made of lighter elements
D. areyounger
E. havefewermoons
AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield | 18

 NASA/MESSENGER
Mercury
AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield | 19

  Mercury
• No atmosphere, highly cratered surface
• Rocky exterior with a huge iron core
• Temperature fluctuates between -170 C
and 425 C (lead melts at 327 C)
• No moons
• Only two probes have ever been sent to Mercury:
– Mariner 10 (1974-1975) – MESSENGER (2011-2015)
AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield | 20

  Credit: MESSENGER
AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield 21 |

    Credit: MESSENGER
AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield 22 |

 Venus
AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield | 23
 
 Venus
• Thick CO2 atmosphere,
lots of (possibly) active volcanoes
• About the same size as Earth
• Runaway greenhouse effect makes it even hotter than Mercury: 460 C everywhere all the time (lead melts at 327 C)
• Rains acid
• Nomoons
• Rotates very slowly and backwards!
AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield | 24
 
 NASA
Magellan (1991) radar map sees through the clouds
AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield 25 |
Venus

 Earth
• Wet planet
• Unusually big moon
• Surface and atmosphere heavily modified by life
  + way too much CO2 
AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield | 26

 Credit: NASA/JPL
AST101|UofT|Prof.Netterfield| 27
Mars

 Mars
 • VerythinCO2atmosphere
• Many huge, extinct volcanoes
• Was probably warmer and wetter in the past
• Many surface features probably carved by water
• sub-surfacewater
• Nolifeknowntodate
AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield | 28

 Olympus Mons: Volcano on Mars
Credits: NASA; © 2004 Wolfgang Weiser ; Wikipedia user Resident Mario ;
ESA / DLR / FU Berlin (G. Neukum) AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield | 29
    
 Valles Marineris: Canyon on Mars
    Credit: NASA / R. Kline; ESA / DLR / FU Berlin (G. Neukum)
AST101|UofT|Prof.Netterfield| 30

 NASA: Spirit and Opportunity (2004- )
• Spirit stopped working in 2011
• Opportunity is still going! (45 km and counting ...)
 Credit: NASA/JPL-Caltech/Cornell/MAAS Digital LLC
AST101|UofT|Prof.Netterfield| 31

 NASA: Curiosity Rover
• Landed Aug 2012
• Has travelled about
20km
 Credit: NASA/JPL-Caltech/Cornell/MAAS Digital LLC
AST101|UofT|Prof.Netterfield| 32

 Clicker Quiz
The planet with the highest average surface temperature is:
A. Mercury B. Venus C. Earth D. Mars
AST101|UofT|Prof.Netterfield| 33

 Clicker Quiz
Scientists announce the discovery of a new planet in another solar system. The planet is the same size as Earth and orbits a star just like the Sun at a distance of 0.9 AU. Based on our own solar system, what can we conclude about this planet?
A. It will be highly geologically active.
B. It will have a similar climate to Earth.
C. It will have a thin atmosphere.
D. It will have at least one moon.
E. It will be made mainly of rock.
AST101|UofT|Prof.Netterfield| 34

 Asteroid Belt
• In between orbits of Mars and Jupiter
• Many thousands or millions of
“rubble piles”
• Material left over from the formation of the solar system, prevented from turning into a planet by tides from Jupiter
AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield | 35

 False colour image of asteroid Gaspra captured by the Galileo spacecraft (NASA).
AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield | 36

 Asteroid 433 Eros, as seen by the NEAR spacecraft in 2000
AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield | 37

 NEAR actually landed on Eros
AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield | 38

 Jupiter
• Largest planet in the solar system
• Thick gaseous atmosphere surrounds a giant ball of liquid
hydrogen
• Earth-sized rock somewhere deep inside?
• Has very faint rings
• Many moons: more than 60 known to date
AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield | 39

  True colour image of Jupiter from the Cassini spacecraft (NASA)
AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield | 40

   Juno
in 2011,
Jupiter on July 5, 2016
was launched by NASA and arrived at
    Image credit: NASA/JPL
AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield | 41

  Io is the most volcanically active body in the solar system, thanks to tides from Jupiter.
AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield | 42
 
 Image Credit: NASA/JPL-Caltech/Space Science Institute
Saturn
AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield | 43

 Saturn
• Spectacular rings
• More than 60
known moons
• Cassini spent 13 years at Saturn, taking gorgeous pictures
AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield | 44

 Image Credit: NASA/JPL-Caltech/Space Science Institute
AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield | 45

  The rings of Saturn are made of tiny particles
of mainly ice (artist’s conception)
AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield | 46

 Starting July 1, 2004, 02:48 UTC, Cassini was orbiting Saturn
Image Credit: NASA/JPL-Caltech/Space Science Institute
AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield | 47

 AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield | 48

 Clicker Quiz
If you tried to land a space ship on a Jovian Planet, what would happen first?
A. You’d go right through it because it’s made of gas.
B. You’d eventually land on the solid core.
C. You’d be crushed by the tremendous gas pressure.
D. You’d encounter the telepathic space octopuses that live inside and be enslaved in their dilithium mines
 AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield | 49

  Uranus and Neptune
• principally a slushy ice mixture
• Both about the same size
• Bothbluey/green
• Bothhavemanymoons
• Both have faint rings
AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield | 50
 
 Uranus, as seen by Voyager 2
AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield | 51

 direction to Sun
 Uranus is tipped over!
AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield | 52

 Neptune, as seen by Voyager 2
AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield | 53
 
 Trans-Neptunian Objects
• Beyond Neptune, there are many dwarf planets
• These are small, icy bodies
• Pluto is the largest one known
• They take a long time to orbit the Sun
• New Horizons has recently given us our first-ever close up view of a trans-Neptunian object
AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield | 54

  The best picture we had of Pluto until 2015, using lots of computer enhancement.
AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield 55 |

 Pluto, as seen by New Horizons
 Credit: NASA
AST101|UofT|Prof.Netterfield| 56

  AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield | 57

  The Kuiper Belt is a ring of comets orbiting just beyond Neptune.
This is debris left over from the formation of the solar system.
AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield | 58

 The Oort cloud is a spherical cloud of perhaps a trillion comets surrounding the solar system.
AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield | 59

 Clicker Quiz – 60 seconds
Which of the following is largest?
A. the Sun
B. the Kuiper Belt
C. Jupiter
D. the Oort Cloud
E. theasteroidbelt
AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield | 60

  You are here...
AST101|UofT|Prof.Netterfield| 61
[Roberto Ziche]

 
 Clicker Quiz – 60 seconds
How many stars are there in our Solar System?
A. None
B. One
C. A few hundred billion
D. Too many to count
E. We cannot be sure yet
AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield | 63

 Clicker Quiz – 60 seconds
Compared to planets in the inner Solar System, planets in the outer Solar System generally:
A. aresmaller
B. havethinneratmospheres
C. are made of lighter elements
D. areyounger
E. havefewermoons
AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield | 64

 A.
C.
Clicker Quiz – 30 seconds
Which of the following is Mercury?
    B.
D.
AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield | 65

 Clicker Quiz – 60 seconds
The planet with the highest average surface temperature is:
A. Mercury
B. Venus
C. Earth D. Mars
AST101|UofT|Prof.Netterfield| 66

 Clicker Quiz – 60 seconds
Scientists announce the discovery of a new planet in another solar system. The planet is the same size as Earth and orbits a star just like the Sun at a distance of 0.9 AU. Based on our own solar system, what can we conclude about this planet?
A. It will be highly geologically active.
B. It will have a similar climate to Earth.
C. It will have a thin atmosphere.
D. It will have at least one moon.
E. It will be made mainly of rock.
AST101|UofT|Prof.Netterfield| 67

 Clicker Quiz – 60 seconds
If you tried to land a space ship on a gas giant, what would happen first?
A. You’d go right through it because it’s made of gas.
B. You’d eventually land on the solid core.
C. You’d be crushed by the tremendous gas pressure.
D. You’d encounter the telepathic space octopuses that live inside and be enslaved in their dilithium mines
 AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield | 68

 Clicker Quiz – 60 seconds
Which of the following is largest?
A. the Sun
B. the Kuiper Belt
C. Jupiter
D. the Oort Cloud
E. theasteroidbelt
AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield | 69

 Get your clicker ready!
1. Press and hold the On/Off button until the Power indicator light begins flashing.
2. Enter the 2-character frequency code 'AA' using the buttons (A B C D) on the clicker.
For iClicker REEF:
• University of Toronto – St. George
• Course AST101FALL2018 – The Sun
and its Neighbours
 Practice Quiz
(Not for Marks)
A) Fall
B) Winter C) Spring D) Summer E) Autumn
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 1

 AST
THE SUN AND ITS
ast101
1
NEIGHBOURS
@astro.utoronto.ca
01
    AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 2

 Assignments
• Done on Mastering Astronomy. You need a code to create your account. See Quercus for details.
• Assignment 1 has closed.
• Assignment 2 is available – due next Monday at 9AM
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfoe;d| 3

 Observing Projects
• Tryastrophotographyforyourself!
• Help is available on observing nights: see Quercus under
Observing Sessions
• The project guide is on Quercus on the course Home Page, under Observing Project
• The project is worth 9% of your final grade
• Theprojectplan,worth3%ofyourfinalgradedueon
September 26
• Startthisprojectearly!
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 4

 Questions?
Personal Questions Only: (eg, special accommodations) email: ast101@astro.utoronto.ca
Observing Project:
Quercus Discussion Board: Observing Project Help
Technical Help, Content Questions, Schedule Questions, Assignment questions. Quercus Discussion Board: General Discussion
Comments/complaints/suggestions
Quercus Discussion Board: Feedback Forum
DO NOT directly email the professors or attempt to contact them directly through Quercus Inbox.
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 5

 TheNightSky
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 6
• Stars!
• On the darkest
nights, one can identify about 3000.
• In the city... very few.

  Steve Jurvetson CC BY 2.0
• There are far more than that though!
• On a very dark night away from the city...
• The Milky Way is our galaxy.
• The glow is from many many stars
TheMilkyWay AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 7

 Constellations
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 8
• When we look at the sky,
we can imagine shapes
• These are called constellations

 Constellations
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 9
• When we look at the sky,
we can imagine shapes
• These are called constellations

 • When we look at the sky,
we can imagine shapes
• These are called constellations
 Constellations
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 10

 • When we look at the sky,
we can imagine shapes
• These are called constellations
 Constellations
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 11

 • When we look at the sky,
we can imagine shapes
• These are called constellations
 Constellations
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 12

 • When we look at the sky,
we can imagine shapes
• These are called constellations
 Constellations
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 13

  The Bus
The Swan
• When we look at the sky,
we can imagine shapes
• These are called constellations
 Constellations
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 14

 Constellations
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 15
• When we look at the sky,
we can imagine shapes
• These are called constellations

 Clicker Question: 1 Minute
Would the constellations look the same from Pluto as they do from Earth?
A. They are exactly the same
B. There are tiny (unnoticeable) differences
C. They are quite different (but mostly recognizable)
D. They are totally different
E. You can’t see constellations from Pluto
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 16

  • The Earth Rotates around an axis going through the North and South Poles.
• That axis points (nearly) at the star Polaris
• Therefore, Polaris (nearly) doesn’t move on the sky.
(Play with Stellarium)
 Polaris AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 17

 Spinning Earth https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ceJOBFj3hKs

 TheRotationoftheEarthAST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 19

 South Pole Sunrise 2010:
https://youtu.be/okw6Mu3mxdM?list=RDokw6Mu3mxdM AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 20

 Clicker Question: 1 Minute
If you were at the north pole (at night) where would you find Polaris on the sky?
A. You can’t see Polaris from the North Pole
B. It depends on the season and what time it is
C. Near the Horizon
D. Straight up
E. About 45 degrees from the horizon
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 21

 See Interactive Figure 2.14 in Mastering Astronomy – Chapter 2
Constellations AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 22

 Clicker Question: Not for Marks
What causes Seasons
A. The Earth is closer to the Sun in June/July.
B. The Sun is higher in the sky in June/July in the Northern Hemisphere (but lower in the Southern Hemisphere)
C. Falling leaves change the amount of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere (greenhouse effect)
D. Volcanic activity
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 23

 http://astro.unl.edu/naap/motion1/animations/seasons_ecliptic.html AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 24

 Clicker Question:
If the axis of the Earth’s rotation was perpendicular to the orbital plane (and not tipped like it is now) what would seasons be like?
A. About the same as now
B. Much more severe
C. A bit more severe
D. A bit less severe
E. Almost no seasons at all.
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 25

 Clicker Question:
If the axis of the Earth’s rotation was parallel to the orbital plane (tipped on its side) what would seasons be like?
A. About the same as now
B. Much more severe
C. A bit more severe
D. A bit less severe
E. Almost no seasons at all
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 26

 See Interactive Figure 2.15 in Mastering Astronomy – Chapter 2
Seasons AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 27

 Clicker Question:
What is the apparent path of the sun on the sky on December 21 as viewed from the South Pole?
A. It isn’t visible because it is below the horizon
B. It travels around the sky at the horizon – like a long sunset
C. It travels around the sky about 23 degrees up
D. It is straight up all day
E. It rises in the East, goes directly overhead, and sets in the West
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 28

 Clicker Question:
What is the apparent path of the sun on the sky on March 21 as viewed from the Equator?
A. It isn’t visible because it is below the horizon
B. It travels around the sky at the horizon – like a long sunset
C. It travels around the sky about 23 degrees up
D. It is straight up all day
E. It rises in the East, goes directly overhead, and sets in the West
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 29

  The angular size of an object depends on
• how big it is
and
• how far away it is
AngularSize AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 30

 • Angles are measured in degrees. • A right (square) angle is 90o
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 31

 Warning: Not Exact!!!
EstimatingAngles AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 32

 Clicker Question (not for marks)
The Sun and the Moon have (roughly) the same angular
size. From this fact alone we can conclude:
A. The Sun is bigger than the Moon
B. The Moon is closer than the Sun
C. The Earth is orbiting the Sun
D. It is September
E. Any of these could be true, but the observation alone doesn’t prove it.
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 33

 
 Clicker Question:
Would the constellations look the same from Pluto as they do from Earth?
A. They are exactly the same
B. There are tiny (unnoticeable) differences
C. They are quite different (but mostly recognizable)
D. They are totally different
E. You can’t see constellations from Pluto
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 35

 Clicker Question: 1 Minute
If you were at the north pole (at night) where would you find Polaris on the sky?
A. You can’t see Polaris from the North Pole
B. It depends on the season and what time it is
C. Near the Horizon
D. Straight up
E. About 45 degrees from the horizon
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 36

 Clicker Question: Not for Marks
What causes Seasons
A. The Earth is closer to the Sun in June/July.
B. The Sun is higher in the sky in June/July in the Northern Hemisphere (but lower in the Southern Hemisphere)
C. Falling leaves change the amount of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere (greenhouse effect)
D. Volcanic activity
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 37

 Clicker Question:
If the axis of the Earth’s rotation was perpendicular to the orbital plane (and not tipped like it is now) what would seasons be like?
A. About the same as now
B. Much more severe
C. A bit more severe
D. A bit less severe
E. Almost no seasons at all.
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 38

 Clicker Question:
If the axis of the Earth’s rotation was parallel to the orbital plane (tipped on its side) what would seasons be like?
A. About the same as now
B. Much more severe
C. A bit more severe
D. A bit less severe
E. Almost no seasons at all
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 39

 Clicker Question: 1 Minute
What is the apparent path of the sun on the sky on December 21 as viewed from the South Pole?
A. It isn’t visible because it is below the horizon
B. It travels around the sky at the horizon – like a long sunset
C. It travels around the sky about 23 degrees up
D. It is straight up all day
E. It rises in the East, goes directly overhead, and sets in the West
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 40

 Clicker Question: 1 Minute
What is the apparent path of the sun on the sky on March 21 as viewed from the Equator?
A. It isn’t visible because it is below the horizon
B. It travels around the sky at the horizon – like a long sunset
C. It travels around the sky about 23 degrees up
D. It is straight up all day
E. It rises in the East, goes directly overhead, and sets in the West
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 41

 Clicker Question (not for marks)
The Sun and the Moon have (roughly) the same angular
size. From this fact alone we can conclude:
A. The Sun is bigger than the Moon
B. The Moon is closer than the Sun
C. The Earth is orbiting the Sun
D. It is September
E. Any of these could be true, but the observation alone doesn’t prove it.
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 42

  Test Quiz (Not for Marks) A) Blue
B) Shot C) Cake D) Light E) Sailor
Get your clicker ready!
1. Press and hold the On/Off button until the Power indicator light begins flashing.
2. Enter the 2-character frequency code 'AA' using the buttons (A B C D) on the clicker.
For iClicker REEF:
• University of Toronto – St. George
• Course AST101FALL2018 – The Sun
and its Neighbours
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 1

 AST
THE SUN AND ITS
ast101
1
NEIGHBOURS
@astro.utoronto.ca
01
    AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 2

 Assignments
• Done on Mastering Astronomy. You need a code to create your account. See Quercus for details.
• Second Assignment is due Monday at 9 AM
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 3

 Observing Projects
• Tryastrophotographyforyourself!
• Help is available on observing nights: see Quercus under
Observing Sessions
• The project guide is on Quercus on the course Home Page, under Observing Project
• The project is worth 9% of your final grade
• Theprojectplan,worth3%ofyourfinalgradedueon
September 26
• Startthisprojectearly!
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 4

 http://astro.unl.edu/naap/motion1/animations/seasons_ecliptic.html AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 5

 Clicker Question:
What causes Seasons
A. The Earth is closer to the Sun in June/July.
B. The Sun is higher in the sky in June/July in the Northern Hemisphere (but lower in the Southern Hemisphere)
C. Falling leaves change the amount of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere (greenhouse effect)
D. Volcanic activity
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 6

 Clicker Question:
What is the apparent path of the sun on the sky on March 21 as viewed from the Equator?
A. It isn’t visible because it is below the horizon
B. It travels around the sky at the horizon – like a long sunset
C. It travels around the sky about 23 degrees up
D. It is straight up all day
E. It rises in the East, goes directly overhead, and sets in the West
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 7

  The angular size of an object depends on
• how big it is
and
• how far away it is
AngularSize AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 8

 • Angles are measured in degrees. • A right (square) angle is 90o
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 9

 Warning: Not Exact!!!
EstimatingAngles AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 10

 Clicker Question (not for marks)
The Sun and the Moon have (roughly) the same angular
size. From this fact alone we can conclude:
A. The Sun is bigger than the Moon
B. The Moon is closer than the Sun
C. The Earth is orbiting the Sun
D. It is September
E. Any of these could be true, but the observation alone doesn’t prove it.
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 11

 Clicker Question:
 A BD C
In this picture, which direction is the Sun?
    AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 12

 Phases of the Moon
AST 101 | UofT | Dr. Netterfield | 13
• Only half of
the moon is illuminated
at any one time.
• The phase changes as the moon orbits the earth

 http://astro.unl.edu/naap/lps/animations/lps.html AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 14

  Waxing
• Moon visible in afternoon/evening
• Gets "fuller" and rises later each day
Waning
• Moon visible in late night/morning
• Gets "less full" and sets later each day
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 15

 https://www.nasa.gov/topics/solarsystem/features/epoxi_transit.html
[NASA Deep Impact Sattellite]
The Earth and the Moon
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 16

 Clicker Quiz
Which describes the motion of a full moon?
A. Rises near 6 AM, sets near 6 PM
B. Rises near noon, sets near midnight
C. Rises near 6 PM, sets near 6 AM
D. Rises near midnight, sets near noon
E. Any one of these, depending on the time of year
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 17

 Clicker Quiz
Which describes the motion of a Quarter Moon?
A. Rises near 6 AM, sets near 6 PM
B. Rises near noon, sets near midnight
C. Rises near 6 PM, sets near 6 AM
D. Rises near midnight, sets near noon
E. B or D, depending on if it is Waxing or Waning
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 18

 • The moon rotates as it orbits, so the same side always faces the Earth
• The far side of the moon can never be seen from Earth
 Near side of the Moon AST 101 | UofT | Dr. Netterfield | 19

 Shadow of the moon, on the Earth
When aligned right, the moon can cast a shadow on the earth (solar eclipse) or the earth can cast a shadow on the moon (lunar eclipse)
  Eclipses
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 20

 Eclipses AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 21

 Clicker quiz: A solar eclipse occurs:
A. At every new moon, somewhere on Earth
B. At the new moon, but not always
C. At every full moon, somewhere on Earth
D. At the full moon, but not always
E. At some full and new moons
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 22

 The moon’s orbit is not quite circular. When it is closer, it appears a little bigger.
 Moon’s actual orbit (Not quite Circular)
Circular orbit
  Earth

 The moon’s orbit is not quite circular. When it is closer, it
appears a little bigger.
When it is closest
during a full moon,
it is popularly called a “Super Moon”.
[Marco Langbroek]

 The Angular Size of the moon and the sun are nearly the same, so the moon almost perfectly covers the sun.
The physical size are very very different!
 Solar Eclipse: The moon blocks the Sun
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 25

 • The moon’s orbit is elliptical.
• If an eclipse happens when the moon is closer to the earth in its orbit, the center of the shadow sees a total eclipse
 Solar Eclipse: The moon blocks the Sun
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 26

 • The moon’s orbit is elliptical.
• If an eclipse
happens when
the moon is
further from the
earth in its orbit,
the center of the
shadow sees an
annular eclipse
 Solar Eclipse: The moon blocks the Sun
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 27

 Lunar Eclipse: the earth blocks the sun
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 28

 • In a lunar eclipse, the earth casts a shadow on the moon.
LunarEclipse AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 29

  • In a full lunar eclipse, the moon is much darker and red.
• The sun’s light is bent around the earth by the earth’s atmosphere, partially lighting up the moon.
LunarEclipse AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 30

  • In a partial lunar eclipse, the shadow of the earth covers part of the moon.
LunarEclipse AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 31

 Clicker quiz: A lunar eclipse occurs:
A. At every new moon, somewhere on Earth
B. At the new moon, but not always
C. At every full moon, somewhere on Earth
D. At the full moon, but not always
E. Rarely, but at any phase of the moon.
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 32

 
 Clicker Question:
What causes Seasons
A. The Earth is closer to the Sun in June/July.
B. The Sun is higher in the sky in June/July in the Northern Hemisphere (but lower in the Southern Hemisphere)
C. Falling leaves change the amount of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere (greenhouse effect)
D. Volcanic activity
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 34

 Clicker Question:
What is the apparent path of the sun on the sky on March 21 as viewed from the Equator?
A. It isn’t visible because it is below the horizon
B. It travels around the sky at the horizon – like a long sunset
C. It travels around the sky about 23 degrees up
D. It is straight up all day
E. It rises in the East, goes directly overhead, and sets in the West
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 35

 Clicker Question (not for marks)
The Sun and the Moon have (roughly) the same angular
size. From this fact alone we can conclude:
A. The Sun is bigger than the Moon
B. The Moon is closer than the Sun
C. The Earth is orbiting the Sun
D. It is September
E. Any of these could be true, but the observation alone doesn’t prove it.
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 36

 Clicker Question:
 A BD C
In this picture, which direction is the Sun?
    AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 37

 Clicker Quiz
Which describes the motion of a full moon?
A. Rises near 6 AM, sets near 6 PM
B. Rises near noon, sets near midnight
C. Rises near 6 PM, sets near 6 AM
D. Rises near midnight, sets near noon
E. Any one of these, depending on the time of year
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 38

 Clicker Quiz
Which describes the motion of a Quarter Moon?
A. Rises near 6 AM, sets near 6 PM
B. Rises near noon, sets near midnight
C. Rises near 6 PM, sets near 6 AM
D. Rises near midnight, sets near noon
E. B or D, depending on if it is Waxing or Waning
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 39

 Clicker quiz: A solar eclipse occurs:
A. At every new moon, somewhere on Earth
B. At the new moon, but not always
C. At every full moon, somewhere on Earth
D. At the full moon, but not always
E. At some full and new moons
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 40

 Clicker quiz: A lunar eclipse occurs:
A. At every new moon, somewhere on Earth
B. At the new moon, but not always
C. At every full moon, somewhere on Earth
D. At the full moon, but not always
E. Rarely, but at any phase of the moon.
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 41

 Get your clicker ready!
1. Press and hold the On/Off button until the Power indicator light begins flashing.
2. Enter the 2-character frequency code 'AA' using the buttons (A B C D) on the clicker.
For iClicker REEF:
• University of Toronto – St. George
• Course AST101FALL2017 – The Sun
and its Neighbours
 Test Quiz (Not for Marks)
A) Toronto
B) Everywhere (and nowhere)
C) The Sun
D) Yourself
E) The Virgo Cluster
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 1

 AST
THE SUN AND ITS
ast101
1
NEIGHBOURS
@astro.utoronto.ca
01
    AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 2

 Observing Projects
• Try astrophotography for yourself!
• Help available on observing nights.
• The project guide is on Portal under “Observing Project”
• Worth 9% of your final grade
• Plan worth 3% of your final grade due tomorrow on Portal
• Don’t put this off!
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 3

 Assignments
• Done on Mastering Astronomy. You need a code to create your account. See Portal for details.
• Assignment 3 is up on Mastering Astronomy • It is due on October 1st (Monday) at 9:00 AM
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 4

 Observations
• Stars, sun, and moon rise and set every day.
• It doesn’t feel like the earth is moving.
• The stars don’t seem to ever change
• Things fall to Earth
Assumptions
• The heavens are perfect and incorruptible
• Circles are perfect
Astronomy before Copernicus
Conclusions
• The Earth is the center of the Universe
• Everything revolves in circles around it
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 5

 • Text
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 6

 Astronomy before Copernicus
More Observations
• The planets don’t follow a uniform pattern relative to the stars
• Theyappearto‘turnaround’ relative to the stars
Conclusions
• The Earth is the center of the Universe
• Everything revolves in circles around it
• Planets move in circles within circles
Assumptions
• The heavens are perfect and incorruptible
• Circles are perfect
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 7

 Eugene Alvin Villar (CC BY SA)
https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/7/70/Apparent_retrograde_motion_of_Mars_in_2003.gif
Motion of Mars relative to stars
• Planets move from night to night relative to the stars.
• The planets don’t follow a uniform pattern relative to the stars
• They appear to ‘turn around’ relative to the stars.
• This“turnaround”iscalled Retrograde Motion
 AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 8

  • The Earth is the center of the Universe
• Everything revolves in circles around it
• Planets move in circles within circles
BUT: It wasn’t perfectly accurate
Ptolemy's Model for the planets
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 9

   1473 - 1543
A Different Idea
• The sun is the center of the Universe
• Planets orbit the sun in circles
• The moon orbits the Earth
Copernicus and the Heliocentric Universe
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 10

  Heliocentric Universe and Planetary motion
• The apparent motion of the planets are because the inner planets rotate faster than outer planets
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 11

   1473 - 1543
• The sun is the center of the Universe
• Planets orbit the sun in circles
• The moon orbits the Earth
BUT: It wasn’t
perfectly accurate
Copernicus and the Heliocentric Universe
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 12

 Clicker Quiz:
At the time of Copernicus, why would one prefer Copernicus’ Heliocentric model to Ptolemy's Geocentric model?
A. It more accurately matched the observations of the time
B. It was more consistent with the theoretical assumptions of the time
C. It wasn’t clearly preferable at the time
Heliocentric: Sun at the Centre Geocentric: Earth at the Centre Egocentric: Yourself at the Centre
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 13

  Tycho Brahe 1546 - 1601
• Makes extremely precise measurements of the motion of mars
• Used parallax to constrain distances
• From his data, the models of the time clearly had problems!
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 14

  Tycho Brahe
1546 - 1601
Parallax:
• As the Earth moves around the sun, the position of nearby stars changes compared to distant ones.
• Brahe saw no such shift.
• Conclusion:eitherthe earth is fixed, or the stars are very distant.
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 15

  Johannes Kepler
1571 - 1630
• WorkedfromTychoBrahe’s data
• Was concerned with the inaccuracy of the current models for Theological reasons.
• Discovered a fix for Copernicus’ model
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 16

 Planets orbit the sun in an elliptical pattern, with the Sun at one focus
Kepler’s 1st law
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 17

  • A shape you can draw like this
• (X/a)2 + (Y/b)2 = 1
    What is an Ellipse?
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 18

 See http://astro.unl.edu/naap/pos/animations/kepler.swf
What is an Ellipse?
(Nebraska Astronomy Applet Project) AST 101 | UofT | Dr. Netterfield | 19

  Eccentricity
 AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 20

 Planets orbit the sun in an elliptical pattern, with the Sun at one focus
Kepler’s 1st law
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 21

 Planets trace out equal area in equal time
Kepler’s 2nd law
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 22

 Kepler’s 2nd Law (Nebraska Astronomy Applet Project) AST 101 | UofT | Dr. Netterfield | 23
See http://astro.unl.edu/naap/pos/animations/kepler.swf

 • A planet’s orbital period depends on its distance from the sun as p2 = a3
• More distant planets orbit slower
Kepler’s 3rd law
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 24

 Kepler’s 3rd Law (Nebraska Astronomy Applet Project) AST 101 | UofT | Dr. Netterfield | 25
See http://astro.unl.edu/naap/pos/animations/kepler.swf

 Clicker Quiz:
According to Kepler’s laws, when should a comet in a highly eccentric orbit be moving the fastest?
A. When it is furthest from the sun
B. When it is on its way in towards the sun
C. When it is closest to the sun
D. When it is on its way out from the sun
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 26

 Clicker Quiz:
According to Kepler’s laws, which planet moves the fastest
A. Mercury B. Earth C. Mars
D. Jupiter E. Neptune
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 27

 Observations
• Stars, sun, and moon rise and set every day.
• It doesn’t feel like the earth is moving.
• The stars don’t seem to ever change
• Things fall to Earth
Assumptions
• The heavens are perfect and incorruptible
• Circles are perfect
Astronomy before Copernicus
Conclusions
• The Earth is the center of the Universe
• Everything revolves in circles around it
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 28

  1564 - 1642
Galileo Galilei
Uses a telescope to look at the sky
• Showed that Jupiter has moons
• Showed that the moon has craters
• Observed the phases of Venus
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 29

  • There are moons orbiting Jupiter So:
• Not everything orbits the Earth
Galileo Galilei
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 30

  • The moon has mountains and caters
So:
• Not everything in the heavens are perfect circles and spheres (so maybe elliptical orbits are fine)
Galileo Galilei
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 31

 • Venus has phases consistent with the Heliocentric (Sun centered) model and inconsistent with the Geocentric (Earth centered) model.
Galileo Galilei
 AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 32

 Observations
• Stars, sun, and moon rise and set every day.
• It doesn’t feel like the earth is moving.
• The stars don’t seem to ever change
• Things fall to Earth
Assumptions
• The heavens are perfect and incorruptible
• Circles are perfect
Astronomy before Copernicus
 Conclusions
• The Earth is the center of the Universe
• Everything revolves in circles around it
 AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 33

 Heliocentric Universe Preferred
• Earth and the Planets travel in elliptical orbits around the sun
• Explains retrograde motion of planets
• Explains phases of Venus
• Very accurately predicts motions of planets on the sky
 AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 34

 
 Clicker Quiz:
At the time of Copernicus, why would one prefer Copernicus’ Heliocentric model to Ptolemy's Geocentric model?
A. It more accurately matched the observations of the time
B. It was more consistent with the theoretical assumptions of the time
C. It wasn’t clearly preferable at the time
Heliocentric: Sun at the Centre Geocentric: Earth at the Centre Egocentric: Yourself at the Centre
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 36

 Clicker Quiz:
According to Kepler’s laws, when should a comet in a highly eccentric orbit be moving the fastest?
A. When it is furthest from the sun
B. When it is on its way in towards the sun
C. When it is closest to the sun
D. When it is on its way out from the sun
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 37

 Clicker Quiz:
According to Kepler’s laws, which planet moves the fastest
A. Mercury
B. Earth C. Mars
D. Jupiter E. Neptune
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 38

 Get your clicker ready!
1. Press and hold the On/Off button until the Power indicator light begins flashing.
2. Enter the 2-character frequency code 'AA' using the buttons (A B C D) on the clicker.
For iClicker REEF:
• University of Toronto – St. George
• Course AST101FALL2018 – The Sun
and its Neighbours
 Test Quiz (Not for Marks)
A) Seriousness.
B) A force.
C) Warping of space.
D) Falls
E) Pretty weak.
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 1

 AST
THE SUN AND ITS
ast101
1
NEIGHBOURS
@astro.utoronto.ca
01
    AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 2

  1571 - 1630
Johannes Kepler
• Worked from Tycho Brahe’s data
• Came up with an accurate description of the motion of the planets.
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 3

 Planets orbit the sun in an elliptical pattern, with the Sun at one focus
Kepler’s 1st law
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 4

 Planets orbit the sun in an elliptical pattern, with the Sun at one focus
Kepler’s 1st law
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 5

 Planets trace out equal area in equal time
Kepler’s 2nd law
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 6

 • A planet’s orbital period depends on its distance from the sun as p2 = a3
• More distant planets orbit slower
Kepler’s 3rd law
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 7

 Clicker Quiz: According to Kepler’s laws
When, in the highly eccentric orbit of a comet, is the speed of the comet the greatest?
A. It is always the same.
B. When the comet is furthest from the sun.
C. When the comet is approaching the sun.
D. When the comet is closet to the sun.
E. When the comet is moving away from the sun.
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 8

  1564 - 1642
Galileo Galilei
Uses a telescope to look at the sky
• Showed that Jupiter has moons
• Showed that the moon has craters
• Observed the phases of Venus
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 9

 • Venus has phases consistent with the Heliocentric (Sun centered) model and inconsistent with the Geocentric (Earth centered) model.
Galileo Galilei
 AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 10

  1642 - 1727
Isaac Newton
Revolutionized Math and Science
• (co)Invented Calculus
• Presented the idea of Force and the Laws of Motion
• Described the law of gravity
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 11

 Some Definitions
Speed: the rate of change of position. eg, the car is travelling 60km per hour
Velocity: speed and direction.
eg: the car is going due north at 60km/hour
Acceleration: the rate of change of velocity.
eg, The car is changing speed from 0 km/hr to 100 km/hr in 9s. Or
The car changed from going due north at 60 km/hr to going due east at 60km/hr in 20 s.
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 12

 Acceleration:
Change in Velocity
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 13

 Clicker Quiz:
A car is traveling due north at 100 km/hr. How far will it go in a half of an hour?
A. 33.333 km B. 50km
C. 100 km
D. 200 km
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 14

 Clicker Quiz:
Which of these is not an example of acceleration?
A. A batter hits a baseball.
B. A star travels through space at 156,000 km/hr.
C. A car travels along a twisty road using cruise control.
D. You ride a roller coaster.
E. A boy spins a ball on a string over his head.
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 15

  Newton’s first Law:
An object in motion remains in motion unless acted upon by an outside force
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 16

 Newton’s second law:
Acceleration is proportional to Force and inversely proportional to mass.
A = F/m or
F = mA
• More Force means more acceleration
• More Mass means less acceleration AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 17
 
  Newton’s third law:
For every force, there is always an equal and opposite reaction force.
The shuttle is propelled upwards by a force equal and opposite to the force with which gas is propelled downwards.
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 18

 AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 19

 Clicker Quiz: According to Newton’s laws...
A ball on a flat surface rolls to a stop. Why?
A. There is no force acting on it.
B. The rotation of the earth causes it to accelerate to a stop.
C. A force (called friction) acts on the ball, causing it to stop.
D. This is a trick question – rolling balls never stop unless they hits something.
E. It stops because the natural state for earthly objects is at rest.
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 20

 Clicker Quiz: According to Newton’s laws... An astronaut pushes herself away from her large spacecraft.
What happens?
A. She moves away, but the spacecraft stays in place.
B. She and the spacecraft move apart - she more quickly than the spacecraft
C. She and the spacecraft move apart - both at the same speed.
D. She and the spacecraft move apart - she more slowly than the spacecraft
E. The spacecraft moves away, but she stays in place.
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 21

  Momentum:
Mass times velocity (p = mV)
More Mass -> more Momentum More Velocity -> more Momentum
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 22

  Momentum:
Mass times velocity (p = mV)
If you add up the momentum of everything in a closed system you will find that no matter what happens, this momentum is conserved.
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 23

  If you add up the angular momentum of everything in a closed system you will
find that no matter what happens, this momentum is conserved.
Angular Momentum:
Mass times velocity times distance
(mVr)
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 24

 If you add up the angular momentum of everything in a closed system you will
find that no matter what happens, this momentum is conserved.
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 25

 Clicker Quiz:
When, in the highly eccentric orbit of a comet, is the angular momentum of the comet the greatest?
A. It is always the same, because angular momentum is conserved.
B. When the comet is furthest from the sun (biggest distance).
C. When the comet is approaching the sun.
D. When the comet is closet to the sun (highest speed).
E. When the comet is moving away from the sun.
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 26

  Newton’s Universal Law of Gravitation
• There is a force between any two objects in the Universe.
• The force is proportional to the product of the masses of each object
• The force is inversely proportional to the square of the distances
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 27

  Newton’s Universal Law of Gravitation
• The force depends on M1 times M2.
• If you double the mass of either object, you double the force
• If you half the mass of either object, you half the force.
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 28

  Newton’s Universal Law of Gravitation
• The force depends on the distance between the centers of the two objects.
• If you double the distance, you reduce the force by a factor of 2x2 = 4.
• If you half the distance, you increase the force by a factor of 2x2 = 4.
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 29

  Newton’s Universal Law of Gravitation
• G is a tiny number (which you don’t have to know for this class)
• It’s value was determined experimentally much later.
• It is not known why the value of G is what it is.
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 30

 Acceleration due to Gravity
• There is a gravitational force on the ball.
• The force causes the ball to accelerate. The longer it falls, the faster it goes*.
• Near the Earth’s surface, the acceleration is approximately 10 m/s2
• The mass of the ball doesn’t matter*
*ignoring the effect of friction from the air.
  AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfoe;d| 31

 Gravity provides the force which causes objects to orbit.
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 32

 • The path of objects is described by Newton’s laws
• An object can strike the earth, orbit the earth, or escape from the earth, depending on how fast it is going.
• The velocity required to escape the earth is called the escape velocity.
• It does not depend on the object’s mass. Only on the Earth’s mass.
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 33

  https://phet.colorado.edu/sims/my-solar-system/my-solar-system_en.html
• All objects in a system orbit around their common center of mass
• Every object in a system effects the orbit of every other one.
• Newton’s laws of motion are nearly perfect in describing the motion of nearly everything.
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfoe;d| 34

 AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 35

 Clicker Quiz:
A car is traveling due north at 100 km/hr. How far will it go in a half of an hour?
A. 33.333 km
B. 50km
C. 100 km D. 200 km
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 36

 Clicker Quiz:
Which of these is not an example of acceleration?
A. A batter hits a baseball.
B. A star travels through space at 156,000 km/hr.
C. A car travels along a twisty road using cruise control.
D. You ride a roller coaster.
E. A boy spins a ball on a string over his head.
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 37

 Clicker Quiz: According to Newton’s laws...
A ball on a flat surface rolls to a stop. Why?
A. There is no force acting on it.
B. The rotation of the earth causes it to accelerate to a stop.
C. A force (called friction) acts on the ball, causing it to stop.
D. This is a trick question – rolling balls never stop unless they hits something.
E. It stops because the natural state for earthly objects is at rest.
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 38

 Clicker Quiz: According to Newton’s laws... An astronaut pushes herself away from her large spacecraft.
What happens?
A. She moves away, but the spacecraft stays in place.
B. She and the spacecraft move apart - she more quickly than the spacecraft
C. She and the spacecraft move apart - both at the same speed.
D. She and the spacecraft move apart - she more slowly than the spacecraft
E. The spacecraft moves away, but she stays in place.
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 39

 Clicker Quiz:
When, in the highly eccentric orbit of a comet, is the angular momentum of the comet the greatest?
A. It is always the same, because angular momentum is conserved.
B. When the comet is furthest from the sun (biggest distance).
C. When the comet is approaching the sun.
D. When the comet is closet to the sun (highest speed).
E. When the comet is moving away from the sun.
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 40

 Get your clicker ready!
1. Press and hold the On/Off button until the Power indicator light begins flashing.
2. Enter the 2-character frequency code 'AA' using the buttons (A B C D) on the clicker.
For iClicker REEF:
• University of Toronto – St. George
• Course AST101FALL2018 – The Sun
and its Neighbours
 Test Quiz (Not for Marks) A) is turning against it.
B) waits for no one.
C) knows fabric best. D) lengthens the day. E) is caused by gravity.
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 1

 AST
THE SUN AND ITS
ast101
1
NEIGHBOURS
@astro.utoronto.ca
01
    AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 2

  Newton’s Laws of Motion
1st Law:
An object in motion remains in motion unless acted upon by an outside force.
2nd Law:
Acceleration is proportional to Force and inversely proportional to mass. ie, A = F/m
3rd Law:
For every force, there is always an equal and opposite reaction force.
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfoe;d| 3

  Momentum:
Mass times velocity (p = mV)
If you add up the momentum of everything in a closed system you will find that no matter what happens, this momentum is conserved.
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfoe;d| 4

  If you add up the angular momentum of everything in a closed system you will
find that no matter what happens, angular momentum is conserved. AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfoe;d| 5
Angular Momentum:
Mass times
velocity times distance

 If you add up the angular momentum of everything in a closed system you will
find that no matter what happens, angular momentum is conserved. AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfoe;d| 6

 AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfoe;d| 7

  Newton’s Universal Law of Gravitation
• There is a force between any two objects in the Universe.
• The force is proportional to the product of the masses of each object
• The force is inversely proportional to the square of the distances
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfoe;d| 8

 Clicker Quiz: According to Kepler’s laws
When, in the highly eccentric orbit of a comet, is the speed of the comet the greatest?
A. It is always the same.
B. When the comet is furthest from the sun.
C. When the comet is approaching the sun.
D. When the comet is closet to the sun.
E. When the comet is moving away from the sun.
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 9

 Clicker Quiz:
When, in the highly eccentric orbit of a comet, is the angular momentum of the comet the greatest?
A. It is always the same, because angular momentum is conserved.
B. When the comet is furthest from the sun.
C. When the comet is approaching the sun.
D. When the comet is closet to the sun.
E. When the comet is moving away from the sun.
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 10

 Clicker Quiz: According to Newton’s laws... When, in the highly eccentric orbit of a comet, is the force of
gravity between the comet and the Sun the greatest?
A. Gravity is universal, so the force is always the same.
B. When the comet is furthest from the sun.
C. When the comet is approaching the sun.
D. When the comet is closet to the sun.
E. When the comet is moving away from the sun.
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 11

 Clicker Quiz: According to Newton’s laws... When, in the highly eccentric orbit of a comet, is the comet’s
acceleration the greatest?
A. When the comet is furthest from the sun.
B. When the comet is approaching the sun.
C. When the comet is closet to the sun.
D. When the comet is moving away from the sun.
E. Both B and D.
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 12

 Acceleration due to Gravity
• There is a gravitational force on the ball.
• The force causes the ball to accelerate. The longer it falls, the faster it goes*.
• Near the Earth’s surface, the acceleration is approximately 10 m/s2
• The mass of the ball doesn’t matter*
*ignoring the effect of friction from the air.
  AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfoe;d| 13

  Freefall
• He feels weight because gravity pulls down and the floor pushes back.
• If the cable breaks, it no longer pushes back
• He is (temporarily) weightless.
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfoe;d| 14

  Freefall
• The astronaut is in orbit around the Earth.
• There is nothing opposing the force of gravity.
• He is accelerating in an ellipse around the earth.
• Therefore, he feels weightless.
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfoe;d| 15

 Clicker Quiz
When might you feel freefall (weightless) in a roller coaster, if the speed is just right?
A. At the top
B. Near the bottom
C. At the bottom
D. None of these
E. Anywhere, if the speed is
right.
    AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfoe;d| 16

 AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfoe;d| 17

 • The path of objects is described by Newton’s laws
• An object can strike the earth, orbit the earth, or escape from the earth, depending on how fast it is going.
• The velocity required to escape the earth is called the escape velocity.
• It does not depend on the object’s mass. Only on the Earth’s mass.
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 18

  https://phet.colorado.edu/sims/my-solar-system/my-solar-system_en.html
• All objects in a system orbit around their common center of mass
• Every object in a system effects the orbit of every other one.
• Newton’s laws of motion are nearly perfect in describing the motion of nearly everything.
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfoe;d| 19

 Tides
Force of Gravity from the moon is greatest here
Greatly exaggerated shape of the earth and oceans
... and least here
• The force of Gravity depends on the distance.
• The point of the earth closest to the moon experiences the most force.
• The point on the Earth furthest experiences the least force.
• So: the furthest is pulled on by the middle which is pulled on by the closest.
• So: the Earth is stretched in line with the moon.
    AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfoe;d| 20

 Tides
This side wants to fall faster (but can’t)
The earth falls according to the average force.
This side wants to fall slower (but can’t)
• The earth is in Free Fall
• The Earth accelerates according to the average force
• The part closest to the moon is pulled more than average
• The part furthest from the moon is pulled less than average
• So: the Earth is stretched in line with the moon
    AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfoe;d| 21

 Tides
 OK... OK...
• There are two tidal bulges.
• One is facing the moon, and one is on the opposite side.
• They are about the same size.
• Because “Newton’s Laws”.
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfoe;d| 22

 Tides
Force of Gravity from the moon is greatest here
... and least here
• Tides are not aligned perfectly with the moon because the Earth rotates.
• The slight bulge causes the earth`s rotation to (slightly) slow down.
• Tidal forces from the Earth on the moon are larger.
• The moon`s rotation has slowed down until it is tidally locked. The same side
always faces the Earth. AST 101 | UofT | Dr. Netterfoe;d| 23

 Clicker Quiz
If the moon were twice as close to the earth, then then tides would be
A. Larger and twice as frequent
B. Smaller and half the frequency
C. Larger, but close to the same frequency
D. They wouldn’t change
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfoe;d| 24

  • Tides are not aligned perfectly with the Earth-moon axis, because the Earth rotates.
• The misalignment causes a force, slowing down the Earth’s rotation.
• When the Earth first finished forming, days were only 14 hours long.
• The Sun and the Moon both create tides
• When they align, this is a Spring tide.
• When they do not align, this is Neap
tide.
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 25

 Clicker Quiz
When do you have the biggest tides?
A. Full Moon
B. New Moon
C. Quarter moon
D. Full and New moons
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfoe;d| 26

  Tides
The Sun also causes tides.
• Spring Tides:
At the full moon and the new moon they add.
• Neap Tides:
At the quarter moons they cancel.
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfoe;d| 27

 
 Clicker Quiz: According to Kepler’s laws
When, in the highly eccentric orbit of a comet, is the speed of the comet the greatest?
A. It is always the same.
B. When the comet is furthest from the sun.
C. When the comet is approaching the sun.
D. When the comet is closest to the sun.
E. When the comet is moving away from the sun.
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 29

 Clicker Quiz:
When, in the highly eccentric orbit of a comet, is the angular momentum of the comet the greatest?
A. It is always the same, because angular momentum is conserved.
B. When the comet is furthest from the sun.
C. When the comet is approaching the sun.
D. When the comet is closest to the sun.
E. When the comet is moving away from the sun.
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 30

 Clicker Quiz: According to Newton’s laws... When, in the highly eccentric orbit of a comet, is the force of
gravity between the comet and the Sun the greatest?
A. Gravity is universal, so the force is always the same.
B. When the comet is furthest from the sun.
C. When the comet is approaching the sun.
D. When the comet is closest to the sun.
E. When the comet is moving away from the sun.
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 31

 Clicker Quiz: According to Newton’s laws... When, in the highly eccentric orbit of a comet, is the comet’s
acceleration the greatest?
A. When the comet is furthest from the sun.
B. When the comet is approaching the sun.
C. When the comet is closest to the sun.
D. When the comet is moving away from the sun.
E. Both B and D.
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 32

 Clicker Quiz
When might you feel freefall in a roller coaster, if the speed is just right?
A. At the top
B. Near the bottom
C. At the bottom
D. None of these
E. Anywhere, if the speed
is right.
    AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfoe;d| 33

 Clicker Quiz
If the moon were closer to the earth, then then tides would be
A. Larger and more frequent
B. Smaller and more frequent
C. Larger, but the same frequency
D. They wouldn’t change
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfoe;d| 34

 Clicker Quiz
When do you have the biggest tides?
A. Full Moon
B. New Moon
C. Quarter moon
D. Full and New moons
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfoe;d| 35

  AST 101
THE SUN AND ITS NEIGHBOURS
ast101@astro.utoronto.ca
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 1
 
   Credit: NASA
The Sun : The Nearest Star!
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 2

 Basic Properties of the Sun (I)
• Diameter: 1,392,000 kilometres (109 times the diameter of Earth)
• Mass: 1.989x1030 kg
= 1,989,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000 kg = approx 2 million trillion trillion kg
(300,000 times the mass of Earth)
• Composition(bymass):
70% hydrogen, 28% helium, 1% oxygen, 0.4% carbon, 0.6% heavier elements
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 3

 Solar System By Mass
• Sun=99.86%
• Jupiter=0.095%
• Saturn=0.029%
• Therest=0.016%!
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 4
 
 Basic Properties of the Sun (II)
• Rotationrate:25days(equator)to30days(poles)
 • Temp: 5500C(average), 3700 C (sunspots)
15 million C (centre)
• Density: 1.4grams/cc(average) 160 grams/cc (centre)
(compare: water 1 gram/cc,
Credit: Solar Dynamics Observatory
Earth average 5.5 grams/cc)
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 5

 Overall Structure
 Credit: NASA
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 6

  The Bits We Can’t See: The Core
  Credit: gruppolocale.it
•
• •
•
Out to 25% of the radius
50% of the mass
Temperature = 15 million C
Nuclear reactions
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 7

  The Bits We Can’t See: Radiative Zone
  Credit: gruppolocale.it
• From 25% to 70% of the radius
• 49% of the mass
• Temperature = few million C
• Light & heat travel outward from core
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 8

  The Bits We Can’t See: Convective Zone
  Credit: gruppolocale.it
• From 70% to 100% of the radius
• 1% of the mass
• Temperature less than 1 million C
• Lots of churning: hot gas rising, cool gas falling
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 9

 Clicker Quiz – 60 Seconds
Which of the following statements is correct?
A. The Sun’s solid core is about the same size as the Earth.
B. The Sun is the Earth’s nearest neighbour in the solar system
C. The Sun’s radiative zone is the hottest place in the solar system.
D. The core of the Sun is the hottest place in the solar system.
E. The convective zone contains most of the Sun’s mass.
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 46

    Credit: NASA
The Photosphere (I)
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 11

    Credit: NASA
The Photosphere (II)
The “surface” of the Sun
(OK, not really, but it’s where sun changes from transparent to opaque)
Average temp = 5500 C
Only approx 100 km thick! (0.015% of total radius)
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 12

 Photosphere: A Closer Look
 Credit: Luc Rouppe van der Voort / Institute for Solar Physics, Oslo
The Sun is oozing & bubbling!
Photosphere is “granulated”
• granules approx 1000 km across, last 5-10 minutes
• hot areas rising, dark areas sinking
• we’re seeing the top of the convective zone!
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 13

 The Corona (I)
  Credit: NASA
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 14

  Total eclipse, 21 June 2001, Zambia
© Wendy Carlos and Jay M. Pasachoff
The Corona (II)
Halo of gas above photosphere and chromosphere
Seen only during total eclipse of the Sun
Temp approx 1,000,000 C !
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 15

  Sunspots (I)
   Credit: NASA
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 16
http://www.tretipol.cz/img/pic/9/sunspots.jpg

 Sunspots (II)
• Coolerregionson surface
(temperature “only” around 3500 C)
• Usuallyseeninpairs
• Upto30,000kmacross
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 17
 http://www.tretipol.cz/img/pic/9/sunspots.jpg

 Sunspots (III)
 Credit: http://www.uccs.edu/~mgrabows/gifs/mag_spot.gif
Strong magnetism prevents hot gas from rising up
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 18

 Sunspot Counts
 • Number of sunspots goes from “lots” to “almost none” on an 11- year cycle
• Pattern seen going back approx 400 years
• Complicated magnetic processes taking place inside
• May effect Earth’s climate
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 19
Credit: https://solarscience.msfc.nasa.gov/SunspotCycle.shtml

 Clicker Quiz – 60 Seconds
Which of the following statements is FALSE?
A. Sunspots are regions of strong magnetic fields.
B. Sunspots are cooler regions on the Sun’s surface. C. Sunspots are usually seen in pairs.
D. Sunspots are usually larger than the Earth.
E. Sunspots are sites of nuclear reactions.
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 47

  What Powers The Sun?
Household light bulb: 12 W
  Credit: NASA
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 21
The Sun: 380,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000 W (3.8x1026 W)

 A Ball Of Fire?
Simple calculation:
Completely burning a piece of wood the size of the Sun would take around 80,000 years
 Credit: patheos.com
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 22

 A Ball Of Fire?
SimXple calculation:
Completely burning a piece of wood the size of the Sun would take around 80,000 years
 Credit: patheos.com
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 23

  Credit: envirogadget.com
The Big Squeeze?
Squeezing gas makes it hot
Could gravity be slowly squeezing the Sun, making it hot?
This could make Sun shine for 15 million years
Sun would need to shrink by 25 metres/year
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 24

 The Big Squeeze?
Squeezing gas makes it hot
Could gravity be slowly squeezing the Sun, making it hot?X
 Credit: envirogadget.com
This could make Sun shine for 15 million years
Sun would need to shrink by 25 metres/year
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 25

  One Remaining Possibility: Nuclear Power!
 Credit: NASA
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 26

 Clicker Quiz – 60 Seconds
Which of these statements is correct?
A. The corona is much hotter than the photosphere but is much harder to see.
B. The Sun is gradually shrinking.
C. The oozing granules on the Sun’s surface are nuclear explosions
D. The Canadian Space Agency has sent probes to the centre of the Sun
E. The Sun is mainly comprised of uranium and plutonium.
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 48

  Credit: mirion.com
Atoms
Atoms have:
• a nucleus made of protons and neutrons
• electrons orbiting outside
• examples: gold, helium
• number of protons determines identity (gold = 79,
helium = 2)
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 28

 Credit: mirion.com
Molecules
Molecules: combinations of atoms made by sharing electrons
• Nuclei just observe
• Examples: water (H2O), oxygen (O2), caffeine
(C8H10N4O2)
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 29
  Credit:boundless.com

 Chemical Reactions
• Electrons in atoms or molecules change over to new partners (nuclei just observe)
• Rearrangement often releases energy
 Credit: Wikipedia
Examples:
• photosynthesis • fire
• battery power
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 30

   Credit: wikipedia
Nuclear Reactions
• Nuclei combine or split apart
• Now electrons just observe
• Examples: hydrogen bombs, radioactivity, nuclear reactors
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 31

 Nuclear Fission vs Nuclear Fusion
• Fission (e.g. nuclear reactors, atomic bombs)
– requires heavy elements like uranium, plutonium
• Fusion (e.g. hydrogen bombs)
– uses light elements like hydrogen, helium
 Credit: The Cosmic Perspective
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 32

  4 x hydrogen
Credit: The Cosmic Perspective
helium
• Very hard to make happen
– protons fiercely repel unless they get very close
• Heat something up: atoms move faster
– at 15 million C, atoms moving so fast that they stick!
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 33
Nuclear Fusion
 
 Clicker Quiz – 60 Seconds
What is the difference between a chemical reaction and a nuclear reaction?
A. Nuclear reactions occur on the Sun’s surface, while chemical reactions occur in the Sun’s core
B. Chemical reactions only occur on Earth, while nuclear reactions only occur on the Sun
C. Chemical reactions involve electrons, while nuclear reactions involve atomic nuclei
D. Nuclear reactions involve uranium, while chemical reactions involve hydrogen.
E. Nuclear reactions involve small atoms fusing together, while
chemical reactions involve big atoms splitting apart.
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 49

  Where Does The Energy Come From? (I)
Einstein’s famous equation:
energy
E = m x c2
mass
speed of light (squared)
   When a nuclear reaction produces energy, that energy comes from converting mass into energy!

  Where Does The Energy Come From? (II)
 4 x hydrogen weighs 6.695 x 10-24 grams
1 x helium weighs 6.646 x 10-24 grams
Missing mass →
4 trillionths of a joule!
A tiny reaction, but ...
... this happens 1038 times per second:
→ Sun’s mass decreases every second by 4 tonnes!
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 36
Credit: The Cosmic Perspective

 Clicker Quiz – 60 Seconds
Einstein’s famous equation E = mc2 tells us that:
A. Nuclear fission, rather than nuclear fusion, is the main source of the Sun’s energy.
B. The Sun’s corona is hotter than its surface.
C. Nuclear reactions can only occur when particles collide moving at the speed of light.
D. The Sun’s interior has both radiative & convective zones.
E. The Sun’s mass is steadily being converted into energy.
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 50

  AST 101
THE SUN AND ITS NEIGHBOURS
ast101@astro.utoronto.ca
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 1
 
  Choose Your Seat!
 
  Where Does The Energy Come From? (I)
Einstein’s famous equation:
energy
E = m x c2
mass
speed of light (squared)
   When a nuclear reaction produces energy, that energy comes from converting mass into energy!

  Where Does The Energy Come From? (II)
 4 x hydrogen weighs
6.695 x 10-24 grams
1 x helium weighs
6.646 x 10-24 grams
Missing mass →
4 trillionths of a joule!
A tiny reaction, but ...
... this happens 1038 times per second:
→ Sun’s mass decreases every second by 4 tonnes!
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 4
Credit: The Cosmic Perspective

  The “pp” (Proton-Proton) Chain (I)
• Problem: chances of four protons all colliding simultaneously is tiny
• Actually happens in stages
 Credit: The Cosmic Perspective
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 5

 The “pp” (Proton-Proton) Chain (II)
Credit: Oliver Hector
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 6

  Fusion Only Happens In The Core
 •
• •
•
Out to 25% of the radius
50% of the mass
Temperature = 15 million C
Enough fuel for 10 billion years (we’re around
half-way through)
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 7
 Credit: gruppolocale.it

    Credit: The Curious Astronomer
The pp chain also creates neutrinos
Tiny particles that go through almost anything (including you and me)
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 8
Where’s The Proof? (I)

  Credit: SuperKamiokande
Where’s The Proof? (II)
• With heroic efforts, we can detect these neutrinos!
• 50,000-tonne tank of water, located 1 km underground
• 2015 Nobel Prize in Physics to Canada’s Art McDonald
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 9

 So How Does The Light Get Out?
 Credit: http://www-astronomy.mps.ohio-state.edu/~pogge/Ast162/
• Each “photon” of light travels approx 0.1 mm before being randomly deflected
• Total journey takes around ....
500,000 years!
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 10

  Hydrostatic Equilibrium
• Hot gas has pressure, which tries to make the Sun expand
• Gravity pulls inward, which tries to make the Sun collapse
• Balance:
“hydrostatic
equilibrium” Credit: gruppolocale.it
Credit: Nick Strobel’s Astronomy Notes (astronomynotes.com)
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 11
 
 What is Light?
 AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 12

    • E.g. looking at a light globe
Emission
 AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 13

     Emission Reflection
  • E.g. looking at a light globe in the mirror
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 14

      • E.g. reading a book
Emission
Scattering (reflection)
 AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 15

     Emission
Absorption
• E.g. looking at a light globe through a brick wall
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 16
  
    Emission Absorption
  • This is also how our eyes see things!
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 17

     Transmission
Emission
   • E.g. looking at a light globe through a window
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 18

 Putting It All Together
 Credit: The Cosmic Perspective
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 19

 Clicker Quiz – 60 Seconds
When you watch television, the pictures you are seeing are:
A. Emitted light from the television screen
B. Scattered light from the television screen
C. Reflected light from the lights in the room
D. Absorbed light from the lights in the room
E. Transmitted light through the room’s windows
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 41

  Credit: The Cosmic Perspective
Waves (I)
  A wave is described by 3 things:
• wavelength:distancebetweentwopeaks(ortroughs) • frequency:no.oftimespersecondapeakpassesyou • speed:rateatwhichapeak(ortrough)travels
where speed = wavelength x frequency
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 21

  Credits: The Cosmic Perspective
Waves (II)
    speed = wavelength x frequency
E.g. wavelength = 2 metres frequency = 3 peaks per sec so speed = 6 metres per sec
So at constant speed, shorter wavelengths have higher frequencies
All 3 waves moving at same speed
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 22

  Credit: The Cosmic Perspective
Light Is A Wave (I)
 • Light is an electromagnetic wave (electric currents and magnetism oscillating in strength and travelling through space)
• All light 300,000 km/s
• The wavelength (or frequency) determines the colour of the light
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 23
(in a vacuum)
same speed
travels at
All 3 waves moving at

  Light Is A Wave (II)
The wavelength (or frequency) determines the colour and energy of the light
Red light:
700 nanometres (0.0000007 m),
4.3 x 1014 per second All 3 waves moving at
     Credits: The Cosmic Perspective
The shorter the wavelength, the more energetic the light
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 24
Blue light:
400 nanometres (0.0000004 m), 7.5 x 1014 per second
same speed

 Clicker Quiz – 60 Seconds
Consider two beams of light waves travelling through space, one red and one blue. Which statement is correct?
A. The red light has a longer wavelength than the blue light, but both travel at the same speed.
B. The red light travels faster than the blue light.
C. The blue light travels faster than the red light.
D. The wavelengths of the red and blue light are the same, but their frequencies are different.
E. The frequencies of the red and blue light are the same, but their wavelengths are different.
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 42

 The Electromagnetic Spectrum (I)
 Credit: CSC / S. Lee
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 26

 The Electromagnetic Spectrum (II)
 Credit: CXC / S. Lee
What we can see with our eyes is only a tiny part of the story!
Radio waves (least energetic): e.g. 3 metres,
100 x 106 per sec (100 MHz)
Gamma-rays (most energetic) e.g. 10-14 metres (!)
3 x 1022 per sec (!)
In between: microwaves, infrared, visible light, ultraviolet, X-rays
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 27

 Spectrum of Light
• White is not a colour!
• White light is the sum of
all colours
• A prism splits white light up into a spectrum
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 28
 
  A Light Spectrum (I)
 Credit: The Cosmic Perspective
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 29
• Image of the spectrum: what you see
• Graph of the spectrum: how much
signal there is at each frequency (colour)
 
  A Light Spectrum (II)
 Credit: The Cosmic Perspective
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 30
• Image of the spectrum: what you see
• Graph of the spectrum: how much
signal there is at each frequency (colour)
 
  Clicker Quiz – 60 seconds
Which of these graphs matches the spectrum in the image?
AC
wavelength wavelength
BD
                                  wavelength
wavelength
AST201|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 43
intensity
intensity
intensity intensity

  Blackbody Radiation (I)
• Any “solid” (opaque) object emits light via “thermal radiation”
- you, me, a hot poker in the fire, the Earth, the Sun
• Idealised situation: “blackbody radiation”
- temperature decides everything
- Law 1:
hotter objects are brighter
- Law 2:
hotter objects are bluer
Credit: The Cosmic Perspective
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 32
 
  Blackbody Radiation (II)
 Wavelength (nanometres)
Credit: The Cosmic Perspective
Or on a graph:
- temperature decides everything
- spectrum always has the same shape
- Law 1: for hotter objects, whole spectrum moves up
- Law 2: for hotter objects, the peak of the spectrum moves to the left (shorter wavelength, higher energy)
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 33
Brightness

  Emission vs Scattering
 Wavelength (nanometres)
Credit: The Cosmic Perspective
Note: a red t-shirt is not at a temperature of 3000 degrees!
This is scattered light,
not emitted light
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 34
Credit: wordans.ca
 Brightness

 The Spectrum of the Sun (I)
 Credit: N.A.Sharp, NOAO/NSO/Kitt Peak FTS/AURA/NSF
Continuous colours:
- “emission spectrum” or “continuum”
- blackbody at temp. of 5500 C
Missing small gaps of light at specific colours!
- “absorption lines”
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 35

 The Spectrum of the Sun (II)
 peak
 emission spectrum (continuum)
   absorption lines Wavelength (nanometres)
Credit: Philip Kaldon / WMU
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 36
Brightness

  Clicker Quiz – 60 Seconds
Compare these two spectra of two different stars. Which statement is correct?
A. Star 1 and Star 2 are identical.
B. Star 1 is hotter than Star 2.
C. Star 1 is bluer than Star 2.
D. Star 1 is redder than Star 2.
E. It’s a trick question: “Star 1” is actually a spectrum of Venus, while “Star 2” is a spectrum of Saturn.
Credit: Brock University / The Open University
Sun
 Star 2
Star 1
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 44
Brightness

 The Electromagnetic Spectrum
 Credit: CSC / S. Lee
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 38

 The Sun Across The Electromagnetic Spectrum
 Credit: NASA / University of Chicago Library
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 39

  AST 101
THE SUN AND ITS NEIGHBOURS
ast101@astro.utoronto.ca
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 1
 
  Credit: mirion.com
Atoms (I)
All matter is made of atoms
Atoms have:
• a nucleus made
of positively charged protons and neutral neutrons
• negative electrons orbiting outside (actually a quantum probability cloud!)
• the electrons determine how a material behaves
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 2

  Atoms (II)
 Credit: The Cosmic Perspective
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 3

   Credit: The Cosmic Perspective
Atoms (III)
• The number of protons determines which element the atom is composed of
• The number of electrons is equal to the number of protons in the nucleus
• The number of neutrons can vary, but is roughly the same as the number of protons
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 4

 Clicker Quiz – 60 Seconds
You can turn hydrogen into carbon by:
A. Adding more electrons
B. Removing some electrons C. Adding more protons
D. Adding more neutrons
E. Removing all the neutrons
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 34

    Credit: The Cosmic Perspective
Phases of Matter
Materials behave differently at different temperatures:
• Solid: Atoms or molecules are held in a rigid structure
• Liquid: Atoms or molecules are stuck together, but can change their positions
• Gas: Atoms or molecules move around independently (surface of sun)
• Plasma: When a material is very hot, the electrons separate from the nucleus (interior of the sun)
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 6

  Light is a Wave Particle! (I)
Light is a wave, but it’s also a particle!
- it’s both at the same time: “wave-particle duality”, “wavicle”
- part of the weirdness of quantum mechanics
- transmitted as photons: think of them as tiny bullets or baseballs, travelling at light speed
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 7
  
  Light is a Wave Particle! (II)
Each photon of a given colour (or wavelength, or frequency) carries exactly the same energy
- determined by the formula:
energy = h x frequency
(where h is a tiny number, “Planck’s constant”)
   - red light (low frequency): carried by low-energy photons
- blue light (high frequency): carried by high-energy photons
 AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 8

  Atomic Energy Levels
• Electrons live in defined “orbitals” around the nucleus
• Each orbital has a different energy
• Closer-in orbitals have lower energy
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 9
  
  Absorption Lines (I)
An electron can change to a higher energy orbital by absorbing a photon of light corresponding exactly to the energy change
          continuum
   AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 10

  Absorption Lines (II)
An electron can change to a higher energy orbital by absorbing a photon of light corresponding exactly to the energy change
                   continuum
 AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 11

  Absorption Lines (III)
                 continuum
An electron can change to a higher energy orbital by absorbing a photon of light corresponding exactly to the energy change
→ “absorption line” (light missing at one specific colour)
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 12
 absorption line

  Energy Levels of Hydrogen
Simplest case: hydrogen atom
- 1 proton
- 0 neutrons - 1 electron
→ specific series of absorption lines (if background light is provided)
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 13
      
 Other Atoms
 hydrogen
helium sodium calcium
iron
© Pearson Education
AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Gaensler |
Every atom has a unique set of energy levels and hence a unique spectral fingerprint!

 Clicker Quiz – 60 Seconds
An absorption line is produced in a spectrum when: A. Matter changes state from a solid to a liquid.
B. An electron absorbs a photon.
C. A neutron collides with a proton.
D. Light converts from a particle to a wave. E. Energy converts from a wave to a particle.
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 35

 Spectrum of the Sun: Atomic Fingerprints (I)
 Credit: N.A.Sharp, NOAO/NSO/Kitt Peak FTS/AURA/NSF
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 16

 Spectrum of the Sun: Atomic Fingerprints (II)
 continuum spectrum (hot interior)
    absorption lines (atoms on the surface)
Wavelength (nanometres)
Credit: Philip Kaldon / WMU
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 17
Brightness

  Spectrum of the Sun: Atomic Fingerprints (III)
  Wavelength (nanometres)
  includes iron, chromium, titanium, cobalt, magnesium, copper, zirconium, ...
Credit: Philip Kaldon / WMU ; AAO HERMES
Wavelength (nanometres)
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 18
Brightness
Brightness

  Absorption: Not Just In The Sun
 Credit: Wikipedia
The Earth’s atmosphere blocks out specific colours from sunlight (especially in the ultraviolet)
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 19

 Clicker Quiz – 60 Seconds
Which of the following statements is correct:
A. There is iron and copper in the Sun.
B. There is liquid water in the Sun.
C. The Sun is only composed of hydrogen & helium.
D. The Sun has a solid surface.
E. We do not know what the Sun is composed of.
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 36

  Light Tells Us ...
• Temperature: peak of continuum spectrum (blackbody curve)
• Composition: which absorption lines are present
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 21

  Light Tells Us ...
• Temperature: peak of continuum spectrum (blackbody curve)
• Composition: which emission/absorption lines are present
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 22
BUT WAIT, THERE’S MORE!

 The Doppler Effect (I)
 Credit: YouTube / daverobert2007
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 23

  Credit: Engineering Outreach @ Berkeley
• Sound is a wave in air whose pitch is determined by its frequency.
• When a source of sound is coming towards you,
the frequency/pitch is higher
• When a source of sound is moving away from you, the frequency/pitch is lower
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 24
The Doppler Effect (II)
 
 The Doppler Effect for Light (I)
 Credit:TheCosmicPerspective
• The same thing happens when a source of light is moving
• Sources moving towards you shifter to higher frequency (shorter wavelengths)
• Sources moving away from
you shift to lower frequency
(longer wavelength)
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 25

 The Doppler Effect for Light (II)
 Credit:TheCosmicPerspective
•
The effect depends on how close the source speed is to the speed of the wave.
But the speed of a light wave is very fast – so generally it’s a small effect.
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 26
•

 The Doppler Effect for Light: Examples
  Credits: Charlie Reidel, Associated Press 2007 ; Wikipedia
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 27

   1 2
3 4
5
The Doppler Effect for Light: Spectra
Object 1: At rest, absorption lines are at the wavelengths we expect
Object 2: Lines shifted to longer wavelength (“redshift”) – moving away from us.
Object 3: lines shifted farther – moving away from us faster
Object 4: Lines shifter to shorter wavelength (“blueshift”) – moving toward us
Object 5: Lines shifted farther – moving toward us faster.
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 28
Credit:TheCosmicPerspective

 Clicker Quiz – 60 Seconds
In which case is the Doppler effect strongest?
A. When an object is moving toward you.
B. When an object is moving away from you.
C. When an object is moving toward you quickly.
D. When an object is moving away from you slowly. E. When an object is not moving.
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 37

  Doppler Only Measures Line of Sight
  Credit:TheCosmicPerspective
An object moving directly away: - we measure all of its speed
Moving across our line of sight: - we measure none of its speed
Moving diagonally:
- we measure only part of its speed
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 30

 Real Spectra Are Messy! (I)
This is a spectrum of a galaxy. It has:
- absorption lines from many elements
- a continuum spectrum from the combined light of all the billions of stars in the galaxy
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 31
 
 Real Spectra Are Messy! (II)
All the lines turn out to be redshifted:
- this galaxy is moving away from us at around 4% of the speed of light
(43 million kph)!
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 32
 
  AST 101
THE SUN AND ITS NEIGHBOURS
ast101@astro.utoronto.ca
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 1
 
 Space Is Not Empty!
 Credit: Copyright Dieter Willasch (Astro-Cabinet)
• There is gas between the stars
• It’s called
the interstellar medium
• Mainly hydrogen and helium gas
• Most of it is invisible
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 2

 The Interstellar Medium
 Credit: NASA / ESA / STScI
• Much of the interstellar medium is smoothly distributed (like the air in this room)
• But there are denser individual clouds called “nebulae”
• Some of these are visible, while some are invisible
• The most famous visible one is the Orion Nebula (which you can just see with your naked eye as the middle star in Orion’s Sword)
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 3

 Dark Patches (I)
• There are places in the night sky where the stars seem to be missing.
 Credit: skysurvey.org
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 4

  Credit: ESO
Dark Patches (II)
• The stars are not missing ... they are being blocked out by something
• These are
molecular clouds
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 5

 Clicker Quiz – 60 Seconds
Which of the following statements is FALSE?
A. Space is not empty.
B. There are dark clouds that block out starlight. C. All the gas in space is invisible.
D. You can see gas in space with your naked eye. E. The gas in space is mainly hydrogen and helium.
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 33

 Molecular Clouds (I)
• Densestpartsoftheinterstellar medium, but comparable to the best vacuums on Earth
• 99%gas
- 90% hydrogen molecules - 9% helium atoms
- 0.01% carbon monoxide - 0.001% other molecules
 Credit: NASA
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 7
• 1%dust

 Dust in Molecular Clouds (I)
  Credits:Brownlee&Jessberger;C.P.Ewing
• Dust grains are what is blocking out the light
• Made of carbon and silicon
• Similar to soot or sand grains, but smaller (< 0.001 mm across)
• Better at blocking blue light than red light
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 8

 Dust in Molecular Clouds (II)
 Infrared Light
 Visible Light
Credit: ESO
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 9

  Credit:Duleiuetal.(2013)
• Dust grains are incredibly important
• They serve as “laboratories” where molecules can form
• Some of these molecules may eventually become the building blocks of life?
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 10
Dust in Molecular Clouds (III)
 
 Molecular Clouds (II)
 Credit: NASA, Hubble Heritage Team, (STScI/AURA), ESA, S. Beckwith (STScI). Additional Processing: Robert Gendler
• Agalaxycontainsaround 400 billion (400,000,000,000) stars
• Molecularcloudsarefound all over the galaxy
• Locationsofthesemolecular clouds closely follow the spiral arms
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 11

  Molecular Clouds (III)
Three ways in which molecular clouds are unique:
1. Thehydrogeninmolecularcloudsisinmolecules(H2),while almost everywhere else in the Universe it is in atoms (H)
HHH
molecule atom
2. Molecularcloudsaremassiveenoughtoaffectthemselves and their surroundings via gravity, while other clouds don’t
3. MolecularcloudsaretheonlyknownplaceintheUniverse where stars form
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 12
   
 Clicker Quiz – 60 Seconds
Which of the following statements is correct?
A. Dust blocks red light and lets blue light through.
B. Dust blocks blue light and lets red light through.
C. Dust blocks all light equally.
D. Dust is the main component of molecular clouds. E. Dust is made of hydrogen and helium.
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 34

 How Did The Sun Form?
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 14

  A Molecular Cloud Collapses (I)
• Something starts a • Gravity continues to drag molecular cloud collapsing the gas inwards
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 15
                              
 A Molecular Cloud Fragments
 Credit: Copyright Matthew Bate, University of Exeter
• Thetotalmassofonemolecular cloud is enough to form hundreds or thousands of stars
• Smalllevelsofclumpiness becomes more pronounced as cloud collapses
• Cloudfragmentsintosmaller clouds, which continue collapsing to form individual stars
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 16

 Multiple Star Systems
 Credit: Copyright Matthew Bate, University of Exeter
• Many stars (but not the Sun) are in binary systems
• Some are even in triples
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 17

 Clicker Quiz – 60 Seconds
Why do molecular clouds collapse?
A. They have a lot of mass.
B. They are very hot. C. They are very dark.
D. They are very dusty.
E. They are made of hydrogen and helium.
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 35

 A Molecular Cloud Collapses (II)
 Credit: envirogadget.com
• Squeezing gas makes it hot
• As the cloud collapses and gets denser, it heats up
• A star beings to forms in the centre of the cloud, where temperatures and densities are highest
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 19

  Credit: Per Bjerkeli / David Lamm / BOID
Protostars
• Hot and bright, just like a star
• But no nuclear fusion occurring in core
• Gas from surrounding cloud continues to fall down onto the protostar (“accretion”)
• Can last for a million years
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 20

 Protostellar Winds
 Credit: NASA & Hubble Heritage Team (STScI / AURA)
• A protostar off beyond the right of the image is blowing a wind of gas from right to left
• You can see this wind “wrap around” another protostar
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 21

 Protostellar Jets
   Credits: ESO / M. McCaughrean ; C. Burrows / WFPC2 / ESA / STScI / NASA ; C. Burrows / J. Hester / J. Morse / NASA
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 22

 A Molecular Cloud Collapses (III)
 Credit: Rob Crain and the Virgo Consortium
• The cloud will be slowly rotating in some random direction
• Even though overall cloud is spinning, individual particles can be moving in random directions
• Collisions between particles tend to cancel out up, down and elliptical motions
• Cloud gradually collapses into a spinning pancake-shaped disk (“protostellar disk”)
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 23

 Clicker Quiz – 60 Seconds
Which type of object is not expected near a protostar?
A. Jets.
B. Winds.
C. Molecular gas. D. Planets.
E. Dust.
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 36

  A Molecular Cloud Collapses (IV)
 Credit: Rob Crain and the Virgo Consortium
• The winds and jets eventually blow off the surrounding gas
• No more infalling material
• “Naked” protostar
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 25

  What Do We See?
  Credits: O’Dell / NASA / ESA ; ALMA (ESO/NOAJ/NRAO)
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 26

 From Protostar To Star
 Credit: NASA, ESA, AURA/Caltech, Palomar Observatory
• Typical protostar has core temperature of around
1 million degrees C
• Gravity keep compressing star until core hits
10 million degrees C
• Nuclear fusion (p-p chain) begins!
• Star now supported against collapse by hydrostatic equilibrium
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 27

  Hydrostatic Equilibrium
• Hot gas has pressure, which tries to make the Sun expand
• Gravity pulls inward, which tries to make the Sun collapse
• Balance:
“hydrostatic
equilibrium” Credit: gruppolocale.it
Credit: Nick Strobel’s Astronomy Notes (astronomynotes.com)
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 28
 
  Property
Spin rate
Wind
Sunspots
Solar flares
Composition of core
Now
Once a month Modest Modest Some
39% hydrogen, 60% helium
4.6 billion years ago
Once a week
Strong
Lots
Lots
72% hydrogen, 27% helium
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 29
The Young Sun
 
  Credit: NASA / ESA / STScI
Emission Nebulae
• Young hot stars now light up their surroundings
• Mix of hydrogen gas, molecular clouds and dust
• Hot hydrogen (around 10,000 degrees C) glows characteristic pink colour
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 30

 The Big Picture
 Credit: NASA, Hubble Heritage Team, (STScI/AURA), ESA, S. Beckwith (STScI). Additional Processing: Robert Gendler
Four main components of a galaxy:
1. Black:molecularclouds
2. Pink:emissionnebulae
3. Blue:youngstars
4. Yellow:oldstars
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 31

 Get your clicker ready!
1. Press and hold the On/Off button until the Power indicator light begins flashing.
2. Enter the 2-character frequency code 'AA' using the buttons (A B C D) on the clicker.
For iClicker REEF:
• University of Toronto – St. George
• Course AST101FALL2018 – The Sun
and its Neighbours
 Test Quiz (Not for Marks)
A) Slant, angle, twist, bias
B) A brief trip in a vehicle, for fun.
C) Draw out and convert into thread
D) Turn, or cause to turn
E) Fast revolving descent of an aircraft
AST101|UofT|Prof.Netterfield| 1

 AST
THE SUN AND ITS
ast101
1
NEIGHBOURS
@astro.utoronto.ca
01
    AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield | 2

 Terrestrial Planets Jovian Planets
   Dwarf Planets
 Our solar system
AST101|UofT|Prof.Netterfield| 3
(image credit: NASA)
 
 CC by-sa 3.0 http://www.lesud.com/lesud-astronomy_pageid81.html
Here, the planets have been greatly enlarged so you can see them!
Earth
https://janus.astro.umd.edu/SolarSystems/
 The Planets orbit the Sun
 Oursolarsystem AST101|UofT|Prof.Netterfield| 4

 Mercury
The Terrestrial planets
 Venus
• Small
• Rocky
• Thin or no
Atmosphere
• Few moons
• Made from
Heavy Elements
  Earth
 NASA / © Calvin J. Hamilton
AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield | 5
Mars

 Rocky planets are all close to the Sun
  AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield | 6

  Saturn
The Jovian planets
• Large
• Liquid + Gas
• Small Rocky
Core
• Many moons
• Light elements AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield | 7
 Uranus
Neptune
Jupiter
NASA / © Damien Peach

 Gaseous/icy planets are far from the Sun
  AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield | 8

 Planets all orbit in the same directionprograde
     AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield | 9

  The Planets all orbit the Sun in the same direction.
The Sun and most of the planets rotate in the same direction. Most of the massive moons of the planets orbit their planets in this
same direction.
AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield | 10

  Moons mainly orbit prograde
AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield | 11

  Planets mainly rotate
prograde
(exceptions—Venus and Uranus)
AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield | 12

 How did it form?
Any useful theory must explain five things:
1. Almost everything (including moons) is spinning and orbiting in the same direction, and moving in a flat plane
2. There are weird exceptions to this (e.g. Venus, Uranus)
3. Most orbits are circular
 Credit: Tumblr
AST101|UofT|Prof.Netterfield| 13

 How did it form?
Any useful theory must explain five things:
4. Terrestrial (rocky) planets are all near the Sun; Jovian (gas/ice) planets are all farther out
5. There are many asteroids and comets, mostly located in three regions (asteroid belt, Kuiper belt, Oort cloud)
 Credit: Tumblr
AST101|UofT|Prof.Netterfield| 14

 The Nebular Hypothesis (I)
  Immanuel Kant (1724-1804)
Allgemeine Naturgeschichte und Theorie des Himmels (1755)
Pierre-Simon Laplace (1749-1827)
Exposition du Systeme du Monde (1796)
• 1700s: proposed
• Early 20th C:
abandoned!
• 1970s - : resurrected!
• Now: widely accepted and strongly favoured
[Wikipedia]
AST101|UofT|Prof.Netterfield| 15

 The Interstellar Medium
• Space is not totally empty
• The gas between the stars is
called the interstellar medium
• Most of it is invisible
• There are isolated dense
“molecular clouds” of gas and
dust
• The most famous one is the Orion
Nebula (which you can just see with your naked eye as the middle star in Orion’s Sword)
 Credit: NASA / ESA / STScI
AST101|UofT|Prof.Netterfield| 16

  The force of gravity pulls a molecular cloud (made of gas and dust) together.
It begins to collapse.
AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield | 17

 Clicker Quiz:
According to conservation angular momentum, as the molecular cloud collapses, what happens to it’s rotation?
A. It stays the same, because angular momentum is conserved.
B. It slows down, to compensate for the smaller radius.
C. It speeds up, to compensate for the smaller radius.
D. It depends on its temperature.
AST101|UofT|Prof.Netterfield| 18

 A Cloud Collapses
• The initial cloud will be slowly rotating in some random direction
• “Angular momentum is conserved”, i.e. as an object collapses, it spins faster
• The cloud begins to spins rapidly
• The rotation ensures that not all the material collapses to the centre
 Credit: YouTube / Indium Coropration
AST101|UofT|Prof.Netterfield| 19

  The force of gravity pulls a molecular cloud (made of gas and dust) together.
 As it collapses, it begins to spin faster (conservation of momentum)
AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield | 20

  The force of gravity pulls a molecular cloud (made of gas and dust) together.
 As it collapses, it begins to spin faster (conservation of momentum)
Collisions between particles flatten the orbit
 AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield | 21

  The force of gravity pulls a molecular cloud (made of gas and dust) together.
 As it collapses, it begins to spin faster (conservation of momentum)
Collisions between particles flatten the orbit Forming a spinning disk of gas and dust.
  AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield | 22

 A Cloud Collapses
 Credit: Rob Crain and the Virgo Consortium
AST101|UofT|Prof.Netterfield| 23
• Even though overall cloud is spinning, individual particles can be moving in random directions
• Collisions between particles tend to cancel out up, down and elliptical motions
• Cloud gradually collapses into a spinning pancake-shaped disk

 Protoplanetary disks in the Orion Nebula
The dark regions are the dusty disk blocking out the light from behind them.
The bright thing in the middle is the new star.
AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield | 24

  An ALMA radio telescope image of a disk around a young star.
AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield | 25

 Formation of the Planets
• Tiny small objects stick together to form planetesimals
• These are the seeds (cores) of what will become planets
 Credit: The Cosmic Perspective
AST101|UofT|Prof.Netterfield| 26

 Formation of the Planets
 Credit: Cha & Nayakshin (2011)
AST101|UofT|Prof.Netterfield| 27

 Clicker Quiz
Why is the Earth’s orbit in the same direction as the Sun’s rotation?
A. Because angular momentum is conserved.
B. Because the Earth and Sun formed out of the same flat, spinning gas cloud.
C. Because collisions between particles produce a flat disk.
D. Because gravity is strongest at the centre of a collapsing gas cloud.
E. Because tides force the Earth to rotate in only one direction.
AST101|UofT|Prof.Netterfield| 28

 The Frost Line
• Disk is 98% hydrogen & helium; 2% other atoms/molecules
• Inner parts of the disk are warmer than the outer parts
   AST101|UofT|Prof.Netterfield| 29

 The Frost Line
• Inside the frost line: rocks, metal, gas
• Outside the frost line: rocks, metal, ice
   AST101|UofT|Prof.Netterfield| 30

 The Terrestrial Planets
• Inside the frost line, planets form only from rocks and metal
            AST101|UofT|Prof.Netterfield| 31

 The Jovian Planets
• Outside the frost line, planets form from rocks, metal and ice • Largercoresusegravitytoaccretelargegasenvelopes
• Each planet has its own disk, which then forms moons
     AST101|UofT|Prof.Netterfield| 32

 Clicker Quiz
Terrestrial planets form when:
A. Gas from the interstellar medium collapses to form planets.
B. Jovianplanetssplitapart.
C. Bits of dust stick together to form larger and larger rocks.
D. Blobs of magma are spit out of the Sun and they cool to form planets
AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield | 33

 Clicker Quiz
Why do Jovian planets form only in the outer parts of the solar system?
A. Because there are more comet and asteroid collisions at greater distances from the Sun
B. Because planets can orbit faster at greater distances from the Sun.
C. Because the temperature is lower at greater distances from the Sun.
D. Because planets rotate faster at greater distances from the Sun.
E. the gravity is weaker at greater distances from the Sun.
AST101|UofT|Prof.Netterfield| 34

  Tiny small objects stick together to form planetesimals. Outside the frost line, planetesimals are made of rock and ices. Gravity draws panetesimals and gas together to form planets.
Jovian Planets also accrete gases
AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield | 35

 Asteroids and Comets
• Not every planetesimal became a planet
• Left-over inner planetesimals are rocky: asteroids • Left-over outer planetesimals are icy: comets
  Credits: NASA / JPL-Caltech / UCAL / MPS / DRL / ISA ; NASA
AST101|UofT|Prof.Netterfield| 36

 Asteroids and Comets
• “Heavybombardment”period:manyoftheseleftoverscrashedinto planets and moons, forming craters
• Provided Earth with its oceans and atmospheres
  Credits: Meteor Crater ; NASA / JPL-Caltech / STScI
AST101|UofT|Prof.Netterfield| 37

 AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield | 38

 How Old Is The Solar System?
• Some atoms are radioactive
• They naturally decay at a steady rate
into other atoms
• Half-life: time taken for 1⁄2 of the radioactive atoms to decay
• E.g. “potassium-40” decays into “argon-40” with half-life of 1.25 billion years
 Credit: The Cosmic Perspective
AST101|UofT|Prof.Netterfield| 39

 How Old Is The Solar System? (II)
• If we think newly formed rocks contain potassium-40 but not argon-40, we can use amount of each now to date the rock
• We can date Earth rocks, but these may have formed later
• We can date meteorites, which have been unchanged since they first condensed
 Credit: The Cosmic Perspective
AST101|UofT|Prof.Netterfield| 40

 How Old Is The Solar System
The solar system is
4.55 billion (4,550,000,000)
years old
[This is 32.9% of the age of the Universe, which is 13.82 billion years.]
AST101|UofT|Prof.Netterfield| 41

  Observations
rocky planets inside
gas planets outside all prograde orbits mainly prograde rotation mainly prograde moons flatness of the solar system Some exceptions
Nebular Hypothesis Explains?
            AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield | 42

 What about the exceptions?
• Uranus rotates on it’s side
• Venus rotation is retrograde
• The Earth’s moon is too large to have formed in place • Come to think of it.... why is the earth’s tip so large?
 AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield | 43

 Rocks brought back from the moon show that the surface of the moon is made from the same material as the Earth’s crust.
Simulations show that the moon is too large to have been formed along with the Earth – it is too large!
 Where did the moon come from?
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 44

 Where did the moon come from?
• The moon was to large to have been formed with the Earth
• According to Newton’s Laws, the Moon could not have been captured either.
• If it wasn’t already in orbit, it should have just flown on by
 https://phet.colorado.edu/sims/my-solar-system/my-solar-system_en.html
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfoe;d| 45

  Formation of the Earth’s moon
During the formation of the solar system, a mars-sized planet struck the Earth
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 46

 Formation of the Earth’s moon
The moon formed out the debris...
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 47

 What about the exceptions?
• The tilt of Uranus and the Earth, the retrograde rotation of Venus, and the Earth’s moon can all be explained by giant collisions in the early solar system.
 AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield | 48

 
 Clicker Quiz:
According to conservation angular momentum, as the molecular cloud collapses, what happens to it’s rotation?
A. It stays the same, because angular momentum is conserved.
B. It slows down, to compensate for the smaller radius.
C. It speeds up, to compensate for the smaller radius.
D. It depends on its temperature.
AST101|UofT|Prof.Netterfield| 50

 Clicker Quiz
Why is the Earth’s orbit in the same direction as the Sun’s rotation? A. Because angular momentum is conserved.
A. Because the Earth and Sun formed out of the same flat, spinning gas cloud.
B. Because collisions between particles produce a flat disk.
C. Because gravity is strongest at the centre of a collapsing gas cloud.
D. Because tides force the Earth to rotate in only one direction.
AST101|UofT|Prof.Netterfield| 51

 Clicker Quiz
Terrestrial planets form when:
A. Gas from the interstellar medium collapses to form planets. B. Jovianplanetssplitapart.
C. Bits of dust stick together to form larger and larger rocks.
D. Blobs of magma are spit out of the Sun and they cool to form planets
AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield | 52

 Clicker Quiz
Why do Jovian planets form only in the outer parts of the solar system?
A. Because there are more comet and asteroid collisions at greater distances from the Sun
B. Because planets can orbit faster at greater distances from the Sun.
C. Because the temperature is lower at greater distances from the Sun.
D. Because planets rotate faster at greater distances from the Sun.
E. the gravity is weaker at greater distances from the Sun.
AST101|UofT|Prof.Netterfield| 53

 Get your clicker ready!
1. Press and hold the On/Off button until the Power indicator light begins flashing.
2. Enter the 2-character frequency code 'AA' using the buttons (A B C D) on the clicker.
 Test Quiz (Not for Marks)
A) is in the air.
B) war never does.
C) of clothes
D) dimes, nickels, and quarters
E) key
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 1

 AST
THE SUN AND ITS
ast101
1
NEIGHBOURS
@astro.utoronto.ca
01
    AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 2

 The Cycle of Stars
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 3

  The force of gravity pulls a molecular cloud (made of gas and dust) together.
 As it collapses, it begins to spin faster (conservation of momentum)
Collisions between particles flatten the orbit Forming a spinning disk of gas and dust.
  AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 4

  Credit: Rob Crain and the Virgo Consortium
AST101|UofT|Prof.Netterfield| 5
Cloud Collapse
A simulation on a
computer of what
would happen to a real
cloud.

  An ALMA radio telescope image of a disk around a young star.
AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield | 6

 Formation of the Planets
• Tiny small objects stick together to form planetesimals
• These are the seeds (cores) of what will become planets
 Credit: The Cosmic Perspective
AST101|UofT|Prof.Netterfield| 7

 The Frost Line
• Inside the frost line: rocks, metal, gas
• Outside the frost line: rocks, metal, gas, ice
   AST101|UofT|Prof.Netterfield| 8

    Terrestrial Planets are inside the frost line.
         AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 9

 Clicker Quiz!
Rhea is one of Saturn’s moons. Based on where it was formed, its composition is probably:
A) Mostly rock, with an iron core.
B) Mostly ice.
C) Mostly rock, with some ice on the
surface.
D) The composition doesn’t depend
on where it is formed.
 AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 10

 The Terrestrial Planets (and Earth’s moon)
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 11

   The Moon and Mercury are heavily cratered
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 12

  Creating a Crater
• An planetesimal (asteroid or comet) strikes the surface
• A typical relative speed is 100,000 km/hr
• The collision vaporises the rock and creates an enormous explosion
• A crater is left
• This was much more common
during planet formation.
• All of the planets experienced these
impacts.
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 13

 There were more planetesimals in the past
• Tiny small objects stick together to form planetesimals
• These are the seeds (cores) of what will become planets
 Credit: The Cosmic Perspective
AST101|UofT|Prof.Netterfield| 14

 Mares: places on the moon w/ little catering. Why?
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 15

 Different terrestrial planets have different surfaces.
Why?
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 16

 Can we look under the surface?
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 17

  Earthquakes cause vibrations to travel through the Earth
There are 2 types:
P Waves – compression
S Waves – Side to Side
Peering Inside the Earth
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 18

  Peering Inside the Earth
Earthquakes cause vibrations to travel through the Earth
 S Waves and P waves behave differently in different materials.
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 19

 Earthquake
   Peering Inside the Earth
Seismometers
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 20

   Why does the Earth have a Core?
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 21

  Differentiation caused all of the terrestrial planets to form cores. Note: Only the Earth and the Moon have had seismometers on them.
For the rest, the size of the core is inferred from the mass distribution of the planets, and magnetic fields.
The Composition of the planets
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 22

 Sources of heat for planets
Planets get their heat from:
• Accretion
• Differentiation
• Radioactive decay
In the early solar system, accretion was the most important.
Radioactive decay is now.
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 23

 Getting the heat out...
Step 1: Convection
• A planet’s mantle is
not completely rigid.
• Hot rock weighs less than cooler rock.
• The hot rock rises and cooler rock falls.
• This brings heat up from the core.
  AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 24

 Getting the heat out...
Step 2: Conduction
• A Planet’s crust is
ridged, so there is no convection there.
• Heat is conducted through the rock (slower than convection)
• Crust is very thin. AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 25
  
 Getting the heat out...
Step 3: Radiation
• Infrared light carries
energy away from the surface of the Planet
• If there is more light leaving the planet than coming from the Sun, then the planet cools.
  AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 26

 Getting the heat out...
For Spheres: V=4/3πr3
Area=4πr2
If you double the radius:
• Volume is 8 times bigger.
• Area is 4 times bigger.
Less area per volume means less radiation per volume.
Small planets cool faster.
 AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 27

 Clicker Quiz!
Imagine that planet and its much smaller moon start at the same temperature. After 1 billion years, which will be cooler
A) The Planet, because it has larger
surface area to radiate from.
B) The Moon, because it has a greater
surface area to volume ratio.
C) They will be the same because they
both radiate the same way.
D) It depends on whether they were
formed outside the frost line.
 AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 28

 Small bodies cool faster, so less volcanic activity.
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 29

 Changing the Surface Volcanoes
Molten rock from the upper mantle makes its way to the surface.
Lava flows cover existing landscape.
 AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 30

 Changing the Surface
 Internal Stresses
Temperature changes, etc, can put stress on a planet’s crust.
This can cause mountains or cracks.
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 31

 The great mountain ranges on earth are cause by internal stresses
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 32

 Erosion
Changing the Surface
 Wind, water, or flowing ice can wear away rock and change the surface of a planet.
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 33

 Clicker Quiz!
The moon has many craters. This tells us:
A) That the surface of the moon is old
B) That there is very little atmospheric
wind on the moon
C) That there hasn’t been much volcanic
activity in these areas for a long time.
D) All of these might be true, but craters
don’t show it.
E) The craters tell us that A, B, and C are
true.
 AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 34

 Mares: places on the moon w/ little catering. Why?
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 35

    Start with cratered surface
Leaving a smooth surface. Future impact create (a few) new craters.
A large impact damages the lithosphere
Molten lava leaks up, flooding the crater
This happened after bombardment, but before the moon cooled enough.
 AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 36

 This also happened on Mercury
But it doesn’t any more: Mercury has cooled to the point where it is no longer volcanically active.
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 37

   The cooling of Mercury produced huge cliffs.
The large iron core, and thin mantle put lots of stress on the
already cooled crust as the core cooled and shrank.
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 38

 B
A
Clicker Quiz!
On this icy moon of Saturn (Enceladus) where has the surface changed more recently?
(ie, where is the surface younger)
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 39

  Cratering: high speed strikes
Volcanism: molten rock from hot mantle Erosion: wind, flowing water and ice
   Internal Stresses
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 40

 
 Clicker Quiz!
Rhea is one of Saturn’s moons. Based on where it was formed, its composition is probably:
A) Mostly rock, with an iron core.
B) Mostly ice.
C) Mostly rock, with some ice on the surface.
D) The composition doesn’t depend on where it is formed.
 AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 42

 Clicker Quiz!
Imagine that planet and its much smaller moon start at the same temperature. After 1 billion years, which will be cooler
A) The Planet, because it has larger
surface area to radiate from.
B) The Moon, because it has a greater surface area to volume ratio.
C) They will be the same because they both radiate the same way.
D) It depends on whether they were formed outside the frost line.
 AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 43

 B
A
Clicker Quiz!
On this icy moon of Saturn (Enceladus) where has the surface changed more recently?
(ie, where is the surface younger)
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 44

 Clicker Quiz!
The moon has many craters. This tells us:
A) That the surface of the moon is old
B) That there is very little atmospheric
wind on the moon
C) That there hasn’t been much volcanic
activity in these areas for a long time.
D) All of these might be true, but craters
don’t show it.
E) The craters tell us that A, B, and C are true.
 AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 45

  AST 101
THE SUN AND ITS NEIGHBOURS
ast101@astro.utoronto.ca
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 1
 
     Venus, Earth and Mars
       Credit: NASA/JPL
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 2

      Venus and Earth: Almost Twins?
        1 Earth mass
1 Earth radius
1 g surface gravity 1 AU from the Sun
0.8 Earth masses
0.95 Earth radii
0.9 g surface gravity 0.7 AU from the Sun
0.11 Earth masses
0.53 Earth radii
0.38 g surface gravity
1.5 AU from the Sun
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 3

      Venus and Earth: Almost Twins?
         15o C
1 atmosphere
0.04% CO2
1 Earth day = 24 hours
rotates clockwise
470o C
90 atmospheres
95% CO2
1 Venus day = 243 days
rotates counterclockwise
-63o C
0.006 atmospheres
96% CO2
1 Mars day = 24 hours 37 min
rotates clockwise
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 4

  Retrograde Rotation (I)
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 5
    
  Credit: NASA
Retrograde Rotation (II)
• Wearenotsurewhy Venus rotates backward (or alternatively: upside down)
• One possibility is that Venus suffered a huge collision with another object a very long time ago, similar to how our Moon formed
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 6

 Clicker Quiz – 60 Seconds
Which of the following statements is correct?
A. The core of Venus is a mix of rock and ice.
B. Venus is older than the Earth.
C. Venus is orbiting the Sun in the wrong direction. D. Venus is the hottest planet in the solar system. E. Venus is beyond the frost line.
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 41

  Changing the Surface via Geological Activity
• Impact cratering: Impacts by asteroids or comets
• Volcanism: Eruption of molten rock onto surface
• Tectonics: Disruption of a planet's surface by internal stresses • Erosion: Surface changes made by wind, water, or ice
  Credit: © 2014 Pearson Education, Inc.
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 8

  Beneath the Clouds
• Surface of Venus completely hidden beneath thick clouds
• Magellan mission (NASA ,1989-1994) mapped entire surface using radar
Credit: NASA
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 9
 
 Venus: Impact Cratering
 Credit: © 2014 Pearson Education, Inc.
• Venus has impact craters, but fewer than the Moon, Mercury, or Mars
• Entire surface seems to have been “repaved”
750 million years ago
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 10

 Venus: Volcanism
  Credits: © 2014 Pearson Education, Inc.
• Venus has many volcanoes
• Venus Express mission has seen spots of increasing temperature that may be active lava flows
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 11

 Venus: Tectonics
 Credit: © 2014 Pearson Education, Inc.
• Venus’fracturedand contorted surface indicates there were once tectonic stresses
• Forsomereason Venus does not appear to have plate tectonics now
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 12

   Credit: © 2014 Pearson Education, Inc.
Venus: Erosion
• Photos of rocks taken by landers show little erosion
• Slow rotation: no wind
• Extreme heat: no rain or snow
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 13

 Clicker Quiz – 60 Seconds
What types of geological activity does Venus show?
A. Venus shows evidence for volcanism and tectonics, but not erosion.
B. Venus shows evidence for erosion and volcanism, but not cratering.
C. Venus shows evidence for tectonics and cratering, but not volcanism.
D. Venus shows evidence for cratering and erosion, but not tectonics.
E. We do not know, as we cannot see through the cloud cover.
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 42

 Volcanism on Mars: Olympus Mons!
Credits: NASA; © 2004 Wolfgang Weiser ; Wikipedia user Resident Mario ;
ESA/DLR/FUBerlin(G.Neukum;) AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 15
    
  Tectonics on Mars: Valles Marineris
   Credit: NASA ; NASA / R. Kline; ESA / DLR / FU Berlin (G. Neukum)
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 16

 Clicker Quiz – 60 Seconds
Based only on the sizes and masses of each planet, which statement should be TRUE?
A. MarsshouldhavearockiercorethanVenus.
B. MarsshouldhavemoreactivevolcanoesthanEarth. C. Mars should rotate slower than Venus.
D. Mars should have fewer active volcanoes than Venus. E. MarsshouldbehotterinsidethanEarth.
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 43

     Planetary Atmospheres
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 18
      
 What Is An Atmosphere?
 Credit: © 2014 Pearson Education, Inc.
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 19
An atmosphere is a layer of gas that surrounds a world

 Atmospheres of Terrestrial Worlds
• Venus and Earth have thick atmospheres
• Mars has a thin atmosphere
• Mercury and the Moon have virtually no atmosphere
 Credit: © 2014 Pearson Education, Inc.
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 20

 How Do Atmospheres Get Their Gas?
Outgassing
Evaporation Impacts & craters
 Credit: © 2014 Pearson Education, Inc.
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 21

  Credit: © 2014 Pearson Education, Inc.
Outgassing
• Volcanoesreleasegases from the interior of the planet into the atmosphere
• Virtuallyallthegasthat now forms the atmosphere of Venus, Earth and Mars, and the water vapour that formed the Earth’s oceans, came from outgassing
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 22

 Evaporation and Precipitation
 Credit: © 2014 Pearson Education, Inc.
• Water vapour enters the atmosphere through evaporation
• Water vapour condenses to form clouds
• Condensed droplets fall to the ground as rain, snow or hail
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 23

     The Atmosphere of Venus
• Venushasaverythick atmosphere (96.5% CO2 ! ), with a surface pressure 90 times that of Earth
• Slowrotationresultsin little weather : same conditions all the time and in all places
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 24
     
 The Atmosphere of Earth
 Credit: © 2014 Pearson Education, Inc.
• About10kmthick
• Mainlycomposedof: - nitrogen (77%)
- oxygen (21%)
- argon (0.9%)
- water vapour (approx 1%)
- CO2 (0.04%)
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 25

      Why Are Earth and Venus So Different?
       Cool climate Atmosphere 0.04% CO2 Liquid water on the surface Life
Hot enough to melt lead Atmosphere 96% CO2
Parched dry Probably no life
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 26

 The Greenhouse Effect (I)
 Credit: © 2014 Pearson Education, Inc.
• Visible light passes through the atmosphere and warms a planet’s surface
• The planet emits thermal (blackbody radiation) in the infrared
• “Greenhouse gases” (e.g. CO2, H2O, methane) absorb this infrared light, trapping heat
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 27

 The Greenhouse Effect (II)
 Credit: © 2014 Pearson Education, Inc.
• Withoutthe greenhouse effect:
- Earth would be 31o C colder
- Mars would be 6o C colder
- Venus would be 510o C colder !
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 28

 Clicker Quiz – 60 Seconds
Which of the following processes contributes most directly to the greenhouse effect?
A. Erosion.
B. Outgassing.
C. Tides.
D. Tectonics.
E. Impact craters.
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 44

 Greenhouse Effect on Venus
• Venus’ thick CO2 atmosphere has led to a runaway greenhouse effect
• This also explains why Venus has so little water
Sunlight increases the surface temperature
High temperature increases evaporation, and warmer air holds more water vapour
Result: Oceans evaporate and carbon-bearing rocks decompose, releasing CO2 ...
Credit: © 2014 Pearson Education, Inc.
Additional water vapour strengthens the greenhouse effect
... making the planet extremely hot
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 30

 The Atmosphere of Earth (I)
 Credit: © 2014 Pearson Education, Inc.
• About10kmthick
• Composedof: - nitrogen (77%) - oxygen (21%) - argon (0.9%)
- water vapour (around 1%)
- CO2 (0.04%)
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 31

  The Atmosphere of Earth (II)
 Credit: © 2014 Pearson Education, Inc.
• Earth’s atmosphere is very different from that of Venus
• Outgassing mainly produces water vapour, CO2 and nitrogen
- 78% nitrogen: makes sense - 1% water vapour: huh?
- 0.04% CO2: huh?
- 21% oxygen: HUH???
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 32

  The Atmosphere of Earth (III)
 Credit: © 2014 Pearson Education, Inc.
• Earth’s atmosphere is very different from that of Venus
• Outgassing mainly produces water vapour, CO2 and nitrogen
- 78% nitrogen: makes sense
- 1% water vapour: in the oceans - 0.04% CO2: dissolved in oceans,
locked up in rocks
- 21% oxygen: photosynthesis! life!
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 33

  Stability of Earth’s Climate
• Venus has experienced a runaway greenhouse effect
• Why hasn’t Earth?
  Credit: © 2014 Pearson Education, Inc.
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 34

  The Carbon Cycle (I)
      Credit: © 2014 Pearson Education, Inc.
1. Atmospheric CO2 dissolves in rainwater
2. Rain erodes minerals that flow into ocean
3. Minerals combine with carbon to make rocks on ocean floor
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 35

  The Carbon Cycle (II)
         Credit: © 2014 Pearson Education, Inc.
4. Continentaldrift carries rocks
containing carbon down into the Earth’s mantle
5. Rockmeltsinmantle, and CO2 is outgassed back into atmosphere through volcanoes
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 36

 The Carbon Cycle: A Natural Thermostat
• Cooling allows CO2 to build up in the atmosphere
• Heating causes rain to reduce CO2 in atmosphere
 Credit: © 2014 Pearson Education, Inc.
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 37

 Clicker Quiz – 60 Seconds
Which statement is FALSE?
A. The carbon cycle requires nitrogen.
B. The carbon cycle requires volcanoes.
C. The carbon cycle requires rain.
D. The carbon cycle requires continental drift. E. The carbon cycle requires oceans.
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 45

      Why Are Earth and Venus So Different?
      On Earth, the carbon cycle regulates the temperature
On Venus, the carbon cycle has stopped working
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 39

  AST 101
THE SUN AND ITS NEIGHBOURS
ast101@astro.utoronto.ca
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 1
 
 The Carbon Cycle: A Natural Thermostat
• Cooling allows CO2 to build up in the atmosphere
• Heating causes rain to reduce CO2 in atmosphere
 Credit: © 2014 Pearson Education, Inc.
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 2

 Climate Change (I)
 Credit: © 2014 Pearson Education, Inc.
• Changing the total amount of CO2 resets the thermostat to a new average temp
• Global temperature has tracked CO2 levels for 800,000 years
• Human activity over the last 250 years has increased CO2 levels to their highest values in 400,000 years
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 3

 Climate Change (II)
• The last decade has been the hottest ever recorded
Credit: © 2014 Pearson Education, Inc.
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 4

  Credit: © 2014 Pearson Education, Inc.
• Black: actual average global temperature over last 100 years
• Blue: detailed climate model, ignoring human activity
• Red: same model, including human activity
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 5
Climate Change (III)
 
      Why Are Earth and Venus So Different?
      On Earth, the carbon cycle regulates the temperature
On Venus, the carbon cycle has stopped working
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 6

 How Do Atmospheres Get Their Gas?
Outgassing
Evaporation Impacts & craters
 Credit: © 2014 Pearson Education, Inc.
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 7

  How Do Atmospheres Lose Their Gas?
  condensation into snow or frost (reversible)
with surface (reversible)
 atoms or molecules escaping into space (permanent)
chemical reactions
Credit: © 2014 Pearson Education, Inc.
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 8

  Gas Temperature (I)
cold gas
          hot gas
• In a gas, individual atoms and molecules are moving in random directions
• Temperature: average speed of the particles (not all particles move at the same speed)
• Cold gas: slow speeds
• Hot gas: high speeds
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 9
          
  Gas Temperature (I)
cold gas
     speeds of various molecules
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 10
number of molecules

  Gas Temperature (II)
hot gas
     speeds of various molecules
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 11
number of molecules

   escape speed
Escape Speed (I)
cold gas
   • Recall: escape speed is the speed you need to be “launched” at to escape an object’s gravity entirely
These molecules are moving fast enough to escape this planet’s gravity and never return
        These molecules cannot escape
speeds of various molecules
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 12
number of molecules

   escape speed
Escape Speed (II)
    hot gas
If we boost the temperature, more molecules will be moving at or above the escape speed
   Fewer molecules are left behind
speeds of various molecules
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 13
number of molecules

     Why Are Earth and Venus So Different? (III)
• Venus is closer to the Sun than Earth
• The atmosphere is hotter
• Water molecules escaped
• Heavier CO2 left behind
• Without water to dissolve the CO2, the carbon cycle stopped
• CO2 builds up:
runaway greenhouse effect
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 14
     
 Clicker Quiz – 60 Seconds
How might Venus’ runaway greenhouse effect have been prevented?
A. More volcanoes.
B. Faster rotation.
C. Lesssunlight.
D. Lessgravity. A. More cratering.
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 38

  Earth vs Mars
    condensation into snow or frost (reversible)
atoms or molecules escaping into space (permanent)
Average temp 15oC Average temp -60oC
chemical reactions
1 atmosphere with surface 0.006 atmosphere
0.04% CO2 (reversible) 95% CO2
Oceans, tectonics, LIFE “Mars Attacks!” ; Credit: © 1996 Warner Bros. Pictures
1 Earth day = 24 hours
1 Earth radius, 1 Earth mass surface gravity: 1 g
1 Earth year = 365 days
1 Mars day = 24.6 hours
0.5 Earth radius, 0.1 Earth mass surface gravity: 0.4 g
1 Mars year = 687 days
No known oceans
tectonics or life
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 16

  The Atmosphere of Mars
    “Total Recall” ; Credit: © 1990 TriStar Pictures
• Theatmosphereof Mars is much thinner than that of Earth
• Earth:1atmosphere, nitrogen (77%), oxygen (21%)
• Mars:0.006atmos, CO2 (95%), nitrogen (2.7%)
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 17

 Clicker Quiz – 60 Seconds
Which statement is correct about the greenhouse effect on Mars?
A. Mars has no running water, so the greenhouse effect is strong.
B. Mars’ atmosphere is 95% CO2, so the greenhouse effect is strong.
C. Mars rotates rapidly, so the greenhouse effect is weak.
D. Mars has volcanism and outgassing, so the greenhouse effect is weak.
E. Mars’ atmosphere is thin, so the greenhouse effect is weak.
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 39

  Planets Can Have Magnetic Fields
      Credits: © 2014 Pearson Education, Inc. ; Droidware UK
• Iftheinteriorofaplanet contains electric currents, the planet will have a magnetic field
• Thisrequires:
- molten (conducting)
interior
- convection
- moderately rapid
rotation
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 19

  Which Terrestrial Worlds Have Magnetic Fields?
Yes (molten interior, convection, rapid rotation) No (none of the above)
No (no rapid rotation)
• Earth:
• Moon:
• Venus:
• Mercury: Yes (puzzling! due to large iron core?)
• Mars: No (no molten interior or convection)
 Credit: Open University
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 20

 The Earth’s Magnetic Field Protects Us
 Credit: © 2014 Pearson Education, Inc.
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 21

  How Do Atmospheres Lose Their Gas?
 condensation into snow or frost (reversible)
with surface (reversible)
 atoms or molecules escaping into space (permanent)
chemical reactions
 Credit: © 2014 Pearson Education, Inc.
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 22

  How Do Atmospheres Lose Their Gas, If The Planet Has No Magnetic Field?
   atoms or molecules escaping into space (permanent)
condensation into snow or frost (reversible)
Credit: © 2014 Pearson Education, Inc.
stripping by solar wind (permanent)
chemical reactions with surface (reversible)
  AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 23

  • •
Stripping the Atmosphere of Mars
Mars used to have a magnetic field, which protected its atmosphere Mars cooled, field decayed, solar wind stripped away the atmosphere
atoms or molecules escaping into space (permanent)
condensation into snow or frost (reversible)
stripping by solar wind (permanent)
chemical reactions with surface (reversible)
 Credit: © 2014 Pearson Education, Inc.
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 24

 Credit: NASA / Goddard Space Flight Center
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 25
Results from MAVEN (I)
 atoms or molecules escaping into space (permanent)
condensation into snow or frost (reversible)
• NASA’sMAVEN
stripping by probe,solalaur wnicndhed
Nov 2013
(permanent)
• Maingoal:to understand how
chemical reactions with surface
Mars lost its
(reversible)
atmosphere

 Results from MAVEN (II)
 Credit: NASA / Goddard Space Flight Center
• Results from MAVEN announced Nov 2015
• Solar wind stripping confirmed!
• Mars currently losing atmosphere at 6 kg per minute!
AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Gaensler |

 Clicker Quiz – 60 Seconds
Which statement is correct about the greenhouse effect on Mars?
A. Mars has no running water, so the greenhouse effect is strong.
B. Mars’ atmosphere is 95% CO2, so the greenhouse effect is strong.
C. Mars rotates rapidly, so the greenhouse effect is weak.
D. Mars has volcanism and outgassing, so the greenhouse effect is weak.
E. Mars’ atmosphere is thin, so the greenhouse effect is weak
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 40

  Is There Water on Mars? (I)
  ice caps!
(a mix of CO2 and H2O)
 Credit: P. James (U. Toledo) / S. Lee (U. CO) / NASA
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 28

 Is There Water on Mars? (II)
Credit:©2014PearsonEducation,Inc. AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 29
 
 Is There Water on Mars? (III)
  Utah
Mars
Credit:NASA;©2014PearsonEducation,Inc.
•
NASA’s Opportunity rover has found widely scattered hematite “blueberries” which, on Earth, tend to form in the presence of water
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 30

 Clicker Quiz – 60 seconds
Which observation is evidence for water on Mars?
A. Mars does not have active volcanoes.
B. Mars’ atmosphere contains water vapour.
C. Mars has ferocious storms.
D. Mars shows evidence of erosion.
E. The surface temperature occasionally gets above freezing.
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 41

  • 1.
2.
Evidence for a Wet Ancient Mars (I)
There are two types of naturally occurring hydrogen atoms Proton in nucleus, electron outside
- standard hydrogen (“protium”, “H”)
Proton and neutron in nucleus, electron outside
- heavy hydrogen (“deuterium”, “D”)
- around 0.015% of water molecules contain deuterium
  protium (H) deuterium (D)
Credit:Wikipedia AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 32

  Evidence for a Wet Ancient Mars (II)
• EarthhasmuchmoreHthan D in its oceans
- Earth has a low D/H ratio
• Let’ssayEarthandMars started off with the same mix of H and D
- the same D/H ratio AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 33
 H
 D
 H
 D
  
  Evidence for a Wet Ancient Mars (III)
• HislighterthanD,andcan escape more easily
• Overtime,Marswouldlose more H than D
(Earth would lose a tiny bit of both, but more H than D too)
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 34
 H
 H
  D
  H
 D
  
  Evidence for a Wet Ancient Mars (IV)
• Until in the present, Mars would have a much larger
D/H ratio than Earth
• If all the water we see on Mars today was all the water it ever had, then it would still have a low D/H ratio, like Earth
• Mars actually has quite a high D/H ratio, so it must have been much wetter in the past
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 35
 H
 D
 H
 D
  
 Mars Was Once A Wet Planet!
• Mars a few billion years ago vs now
Credit:NASAGSFC AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 36
 
 Get your clicker ready!
1. Press and hold the On/Off button until the Power indicator light begins flashing.
2. Enter the 2-character frequency code 'AA' using the buttons (A B C D) on the clicker.
For iClicker REEF:
• University of Toronto – St. George
• Course AST101FALL2017 – The Sun
and its Neighbours
 Test Quiz (Not for Marks) A) Moria
B) LonelyMountain
C) Khazad-dûm
D) Nogrod E) Belegost
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 1

  AST
THE SUN AND ITS
ast101
1
NEIGHBOURS
@astro.utoronto.ca
01
    AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 2

 The Terrestrial Planets (and Earth’s moon)
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 3

 The Dwarf Planets
• Orbit the Sun
• Large enough to be roughly
spherical
• Don’t clear their orbit
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 4

 Ceres
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 5

 Ceres
Orbits in the main asteroid belt between Mars and Jupiter
 AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 6

  Ceres
Hubble image (from Earth orbit) of Ceres
Very little detail can be seen!
Image Credit: HST/STScI
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 7

  Ceres
The Dawn Spacecraft is currently orbiting Ceres.
At first glance, looks like the moon or Mercury.
But... What’s this?
  [NASA: Dawn Spacecraft]
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 8

 [NASA: Dawn Spacecraft]
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 9
Ceres
Salt deposits from a cryo-volcano.
Still active after a meteor strike 34 million years ago.

 [NASA: Dawn Spacecraft]
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 10
Ceres
Salt deposits from a cryo-volcano.
Still active after a meteor strike 34 million years ago.

 Ceres
Ahuna Mons: a 4 km tall cryo-volcano (?)
 [NASA: Dawn Spacecraft]
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 11

 [NASA: Dawn Spacecraft]
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 12
Ceres
Landslides on crater wall (taken by Dawn in June, 2018)
Dawn ran out of fuel two weeks ago.

 The interior structure of Ceres
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 13

 Clicker Quiz
Why is Ceres nearly spherical?
A. The collisions of planetesimals that made Ceres came from all directions – so it averaged out.
B. Erosion: it used to have a thick atmosphere and liquid water on the surface.
C. It is large enough the strength of gravity is stronger than the strength of the rock/ice it is made of.
D. Jupiter’s nearly circular orbit has rounded it off.
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 14

   4-Vesta
 [NASA: Dawn Spacecraft]
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 15
A little smaller than Ceres
Not round – not quite a dwarf planet

 4-Vesta
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 16

 4-Vesta
 A huge collision made a crater nearly the size of Vesta!
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 17

 4-Vesta
 A huge collision made a crater nearly the size of Vesta!
This must have thrown out lots of rock shards.
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 18

 The interior structure of 4-Vesta
Nickel-Iron Core Mantle
Crust
    AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 19

 The Asteroid Belt
Over 1 million asteroids larger than 1 km diameter.
Orbit the sun in the same direction as the planets.
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 20

  Credit: © 1980 Lucasfilm / 20th Century Fox
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 21

 This is what a flight through an asteroid field would actually look like!
 AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 22

 The Asteroid Belt
Over 1 million asteroids larger than 1 km diameter.
Orbit the sun in the same direction as the planets.
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 23

  The Asteroid Belt
Jupiter stopped a planet from forming here.
There are gaps in the orbits where Jupiter has cleared out everything.
 AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 24

 Asteroid 433 Eros, as seen by the
NEAR spacecraft in 2000
[NASA]
Asteroids
• Orbit the Sun
• Not large enough to be roughly
spherical
• Rocky
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 25

   Ida
Mathilde
  [NASA]
AST 101 | UofT | Dr. Netterfield | 26
Vesta
Lutetia

 Image credit: NASA
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 27
Asteroid Ida has its own asteroid moon, Dactyl!

 Clicker Quiz
Which of the following is the main distinction between an asteroid and a dwarf planet?
A. orbital eccentricity
B. shape
C. age
D. orbital semi-major axis
E. number of objects sharing the same orbit
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 28

 Meteor
 Navicore https://commons.wikimedia.org/w/index.php?curid=8736621
Sometimes asteroids hit the earth.
Meteorite
 AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 29

 Meteorites
Some meteorites are parts of other bodies that were thrown off in collisions (eg, 4-Vesta)
Rocky ones from the mantle.
Metal rich ones are from the core.
   AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 30

 Meteorites
Some meteorites are parts of other bodies that were thrown off in collisions (eg, 4-Vesta)
Some have never been part of a larger body – they are like they were when the solar system formed.
    AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 31

 Clicker Quiz
A small meteorite is found that is made mainly from volcanic rock. Where could it have come from?
A. The metallic core of a planet or dwarf planet which was destroyed in a major collision
B. The crust or mantle of a planet or large asteroid
C. The surface of a comet
D. It formed that way in the disk during planet formation.
AST101|UofT|Prof.Netterfield| 32

 New Horizons:
A 9.5 year trip to Pluto, travelling at 50,000 km/hr
Space is big!
   AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 33

 Pluto
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 34

 Pluto
-230 C temperatures. Surface is Nitrogen Ice
Water-Ice Mountains
Many strange geological features
[NASA: New Horizons]
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 35

 Pluto
Nitrogen Ice plains
Water-Ice Mountains
  [NASA: New Horizons]
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 36

 Charon – Pluto’s Moon
Compared to Pluto, Charon is a very large for a moon.
[NASA: New Horizons]
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 37

 Charon – Pluto’s Moon
 [NASA: New Horizons]
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 38
Charon’s surface has more craters than Pluto.
The surface is mainly water ice.

 Pluto’s Orbit
Pluto is very distant Orbital Period is 248 year
Inclined orbit.
In a 3:2 resonance with Neptune, so they never collide.
 [Wikimedia: Phoenix7777]
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 39

 Comets
There are many icy bodies (like Pluto) but much smaller.
What happens when they orbit into the inner solar system?
 AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 40

  Comet 67P outgassing in Feb. 2015, as it gets closer to the Sun.
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 41

 Comet Tails
Dust Tails:
Heat from the sun melts off the ice and dust.
It is blown away from the comet by radiation pressure from the sun.
The motion of the comet causes a curved tail.
 AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 42

 Comet Tails
Plasma Tails
The solar wind (high energy particles from the sun) makes a tail of plasma pointing directly away from the sun.
 AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 43

  icy
rocky
  comets asteroids
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 44

 An asteroid with comet- like tails!
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 45

 Clicker Quiz
Which of the following is the main distinction between an asteroid and a comet?
A. Orbital eccentricity
B. Shape
C. Age
D. Composition
E. Number of objects sharing the same orbit
AST101|UofT|Prof.Netterfield| 46

 Clicker Quiz
How was this picture taken?
A. A powerful telescope on earth
B. A powerful telescope in earth orbit
C. A spacecraft flew by it
D. A computer reconstruction from radar imaging
 AST101|UofT|Prof.Netterfield| 47

  Most comets live in the donut-shaped Kuiper Belt or the spherical Oort cloud.
AST101|UofT|Prof.Netterfield| 48

 The Oort Cloud
 The comets in the Oort cloud were formed near Jupiter, but were kicked out by gravitational
interactions.
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 49

  AST101|UofT|Prof.Netterfield| 50

 In 2004, the Genesis spacecraft tried to return a sample of the solar wind to Earth.
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 51

  AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 52

 [NASA]
  In 2006, the Stardust spacecraft successfully returned a sample of the tail of Comet Wild 2 to Earth.
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 53

 The nucleus of Comet Wild 2 as seen by
Stardust
[NASA]
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 54

  Particles from the comet’s tail embedded in aerogel.
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 55

 This image shows Earth, Enceladus, the Moon, and and comet 67P on a common brightness scale.
The comet is almost perfectly black!
Image Credit: http://www.planetary.org/blogs/guest- blogs/2014/1027-navcams-shades-of-grey.html
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 56

 "JAXA, University of Tokyo & collaborators
Ryugu
Hayabusa2

 
  
  Object I1 / Oumuamua came in from interstellar space, and then left again.
It is probably a comet/asteroid kicked out from some other star system.

 
 Clicker Quiz
Why is Ceres nearly spherical?
A. The collisions of planetesimals that made Ceres came from all directions – so it averaged out.
B. Erosion: it used to have a thick atmosphere and liquid water on the surface.
C. It is large enough the strength of gravity is stronger than the strength of the rock/ice it is made of.
D. Jupiter’s nearly circular orbit has rounded it off.
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 62

 Clicker Quiz
Which of the following is the main distinction between an asteroid and a dwarf planet?
A. orbital eccentricity
B. shape
C. age
D. orbital semi-major axis
E. number of objects sharing the same orbit
AST101|UofT|Prof.Netterfield| 63

 Clicker Quiz
A small meteorite is found that is made mainly from volcanic rock. Where could it have come from?
A. The metallic core of a planet or dwarf planet which was destroyed in a major collision
B. The crust or mantle of a planet or large asteroid
C. The surface of a comet
D. It formed that way in the disk during planet formation.
AST101|UofT|Prof.Netterfield| 64

 Clicker Quiz
Which of the following is the main distinction between an asteroid and a comet?
A. Orbital eccentricity
B. Shape
C. Age
D. Composition
E. Number of objects sharing the same orbit
AST101|UofT|Prof.Netterfield| 65

 Clicker Quiz
How was this picture taken?
A. A powerful telescope on earth
B. A powerful telescope in earth orbit
C. A spacecraft flew by it
D. A computer reconstruction from radar imaging
 AST101|UofT|Prof.Netterfield| 66

  Get your clicker ready!
1. Press and hold the On/Off button until the Power indicator light begins flashing.
2. Enter the 2-character frequency code 'AA' using the buttons (A B C D) on the clicker.
For iClicker REEF:
• University of Toronto – St. George
• Course AST101FALL2018 – The Sun
and its Neighbours
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 1
Test Quiz (Not for Marks)
A) ability to evoke or suggest images, memories, and emotions.
B) the reinforcement or prolongation of sound by reflection from a surface or by the synchronous vibration of a neighboring object.
C) the occurrence of a simple ratio between the periods of revolution of two bodies about a single primary.
D) a short-lived subatomic particle that is an excited state of a more stable particle.
E) the condition in which an object or system is subjected to an oscillating force having a frequency close to its own natural frequency.

 AST
THE SUN AND ITS
ast101
1
NEIGHBOURS
@astro.utoronto.ca
01
    AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 2

 The Dwarf Planets
• Orbit the Sun
• Large enough to be roughly
spherical
• Don’t clear their orbit
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 3

 The Terrestrial Planets (and Earth’s moon)
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 4

 The Terrestrial Planets
 AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 5

 The Jovian Planets Jupiter
Saturn
 [Roberto Ziche]
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 6
Uranus
Neptune

 Clicker Quiz!
Jovian planets have higher masses than terrestrial planets, so they should also have:
A. larger orbital semi major axes
B. higher escape speeds
C. larger orbital periods
D. higher surface temperatures
E. slower rotation rates
 AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 7

              Mostly heavy elements (C, Si, Fe, Ni, O)
Mostly solid with thin or no atmosphere
Low masses Spin slowly
No rings Few or no moons
Mostly Hydrogen and Helium
Tiny solid cores buried under thick layers of liquid and gas
High masses Spin quickly
All have rings
Dozens of moons
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 8

 AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 9

 AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 10

 Clicker Quiz – 45 s
Approximately what fraction of the radius of the “gas giant” Jupiter is actually gas?
A. 80% B. 50% C. 25% D. 10% E. 1%
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 11

 Clicker Quiz – 45 s
Approximately what fraction of the radius of the “gas giant” Jupiter is actually gas?
A. 80% B. 50% C. 25% D. 10% E. 1%
 AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 12

 AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 13

  Jupiter and Saturn
• Rocky/Metal Core
• Layers of Hydrogen
• Solid Metallic • Liquid
• Gas
• Hydrogen with other gases and clouds on top
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 14

  Uranus and Neptune
• Rocky/Metal Core
• Water, Methane
Ammonia layer
• Hydrogen gas
• Visible clouds
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 15

 Clicker Quiz
The cloud tops of Uranus are approximately -200oC. What kind of light should they mostly emit ?
A. red
B. infrared C. ultraviolet D. visible
 AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 16

 Clicker Quiz
The cloud tops of Uranus are approximately -200oC. What kind of light should they mostly emit ?
A. red
B. infrared C. ultraviolet D. visible
  AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 17

  Thermal Radiation
• Anything that is ‘warm’ glows.
• The temperature of the object effects its
spectrum
• Hot things are brighter
(per area)
• The spectrum of hot
things peaks at a shorter wavelength.
Uranus is very cold so it emits Infrared light
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 18

 Clicker Quiz
The cloud tops of Uranus are approximately -200oC. What kind of light should they mostly reflect?
A. microwaves B. infrared
C. ultraviolet D. visible
  AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 19

 AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 20

 The Juno spacecraft left Earth in 2011 and arrived at Jupiter in 2016.
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 21

   Cassini
moons until last September.
explored Saturn and its
 AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 22

 AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 23

 Image Credit: HST/STScI/NASA
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 24

  Different molecules form clouds at different temperatures.
Ammonia clouds are white.
Ammonium Hydrosulfide clouds are orange.
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 25

 AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 26

  Saturn’s unexplained north polar hexagon, as seen by Cassini.
 AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 27

 AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 28

 “The Rose”—a raging hurricane at Saturn’s north pole (red is low, green is high)
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 29

 Some of the 182 Moons in the Solar System
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 30

  Larger moons are (nearly) Round.
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 31

  Smaller moons are not round.
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 32

  Clicker Quiz!
Why are larger moons (nearly)
spherical?
a) They were spinning more during
planet formation.
b) Higher iron content of the cores.
c) Force of gravity is greater than
the strength of the rock/ice.
d) They had more atmosphere
which caused erosion.
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 33

 The Galilean Moons
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 34

  Craters!
High velocity objects strike the surface creating craters.
These were much more common during initial planet formation... and much less common now.
Changing the Surface
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 35

  Volcanoes
Molten rock from the upper mantle makes its way to the surface.
Lava flows cover existing landscape.
Changing the Surface
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 36

  Internal Stresses
Temperature changes, etc, can put stress on a planet’s crust. This can cause mountains or cracks.
Changing the Surface
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 37

  Erosion
Wind, water, or flowing ice can wear away rock and change the surface of a planet.
Changing the Surface
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 38

 Io
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 39

 Europa
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 40

 Ganymede
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 41

 Callisto
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 42

   Ganymede is a little larger than Mercury!
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 43

 Clicker Quiz!
Which moon appears LEAST geologically active?
AB
CD
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 44

 Small bodies cool faster, so less volcanic activity.
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 45

 Small bodies cool faster, so less volcanic activity.
So why does Callisto have less volcanic activity than Io???
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 46

  high geologic activity
low geologic activity
  AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 47

 Io is the most volcanically active body in the solar system.
This is an eruption of its huge volcano, Tvashtar.
(Credit: New Horizons)
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 48

 visible light infrared light
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 49

   high geologic activity
low geologic activity
   AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 50

 Tides
Force of Gravity from the moon is greatest here
Greatly exaggerated shape of the earth and oceans
... and least here
• The force of Gravity depends on the distance.
• The point of the earth closest to the moon experiences the most force.
• The point on the Earth furthest experiences the least force.
• So: the furthest is pulled on by the middle which is pulled on by the closest.
• So: the Earth is stretched in line with the moon.
    AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfoe;d| 51

 Tides
This side wants to fall faster (but can’t)
The earth falls according to the average force.
This side wants to fall slower (but can’t)
• The earth is in Free Fall
• The Earth accelerates according to the average force
• The part closest to the moon is pulled more than average
• The part furthest from the moon is pulled less than average
• So: the Earth is stretched in line with the moon
    AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfoe;d| 52

 Tides
 OK... OK...
• There are two tidal bulges.
• One is facing the moon, and one is on the opposite side.
• They are about the same size.
• Because “Newton’s Laws”.
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfoe;d| 53

 Tides
Force of Gravity from the moon is greatest here
... and least here
• Tides are not aligned perfectly with the moon because the Earth rotates.
• The slight bulge causes the earth`s rotation to (slightly) slow down.
• Tidal forces from the Earth on the moon are larger.
• The moon`s rotation has slowed down until it is tidally locked. The same side
always faces the Earth. AST 101 | UofT | Dr. Netterfoe;d| 54

  • Tides are not aligned perfectly with the Earth-moon axis, because the Earth rotates.
• The misalignment causes a force, slowing down the Earth’s rotation.
• When the Earth first finished forming, days were only 14 hours long.
• The Sun and the Moon both create tides
• When they align, this is a Spring tide.
• When they do not align, this is Neap
tide.
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 55

    tidal heating
(orbital eccentricity greatly exaggerated)
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 56

 The continuous squeezing and un- squeezing of Io heats it up, producing Volcanism.
But this takes energy.
So the orbit should become circular!
But it isn’t!
   AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 57

  a 1:2:4
orbital resonance
(distances not to scale; also, they don’t really line up on one side)
    AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 58

 Clicker Quiz – 1 min
If these two moons are in a 1:4 orbital resonance, where will the outer one be after the inner one has completed
three orbits?
C
                   B
D
       A
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 59

  Io’s orbital resonance with the other Galilean moons maintains its eccentric orbit.
   AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 60

  Tidal heating is also responsible for keeping the interior of Europa liquid.
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 61

 AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 62

 Gynamede
Largest moon – retained some heat.
Some tidal heating.
Combination of old and young surface features indicates (ice) volcanism – but less than the others!
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 63

 Callisto
Not in an orbital resonance – no tidal heating.
Very old (cratered) surface.
Giant Icy slushball?
 AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 64

   high geologic activity
low geologic activity
   AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 65

 
 Clicker Quiz!
Jovian planets have higher masses than terrestrial planets, so they should also have:
A. larger orbital semi major axes
B. higher escape speeds
C. larger orbital periods
D. higher surface temperatures
E. slower rotation rates
 AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 67

 Clicker Quiz – 45 s
Approximately what fraction of the radius of the “gas giant” Jupiter is actually gas?
A. 80% B. 50% C. 25% D. 10% E. 1%
 AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 68

 Clicker Quiz
The cloud tops of Uranus are approximately -200oC. What kind of light should they mostly emit ?
A. red
B. infrared
C. ultraviolet D. visible
  AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 69

 Clicker Quiz
The cloud tops of Uranus are approximately -200oC. What kind of light should they mostly reflect?
A. microwaves B. infrared
C. ultraviolet D. visible
  AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 70

  Clicker Quiz!
Why are larger moons (nearly)
spherical?
a) They were spinning more during
planet formation.
b) Higher iron content of the cores.
c) Force of gravity is greater than
the strength of the rock/ice.
d) They had more atmosphere which caused erosion.
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 71

 Clicker Quiz!
Which moon appears LEAST geologically active?
AB
CD
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 72

 Clicker Quiz – 1 min
If these two moons are in a 1:4 orbital resonance, where will the outer one be after the inner one has completed
three orbits?
C
                   B
D
       A
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 73

  Get your clicker ready!
1. Press and hold the On/Off button until the Power indicator light begins flashing.
2. Enter the 2-character frequency code 'AA' using the buttons (A B C D) on the clicker.
For iClicker REEF:
• University of Toronto – St. George
• Course AST101FALL2018 – The Sun
and its Neighbours
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 1
Test Quiz (Not for Marks)
A) Three A) Seven B) Nine C) One

 AST
THE SUN AND ITS
ast101
1
NEIGHBOURS
@astro.utoronto.ca
01
    AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 2

 Announcements
The Observing Project is due next Monday, November 26 at 11:59pm.
Upload well before then, in case there are problems!
Course evaluations are now open
q.utoronto.ca or by an email link you received
These are really useful! Please fill them out for all your classes!
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 3

 The Jovian Planets Jupiter
Saturn
 [Roberto Ziche]
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 4
Uranus
Neptune

              Mostly heavy elements (C, Si, Fe, Ni, O)
Mostly solid with thin or no atmosphere
Low masses Spin slowly
No rings Few or no moons
Mostly Hydrogen and Helium
Tiny solid cores buried under thick layers of liquid and gas
High masses Spin quickly
All have rings
Dozens of moons
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 5

 The weight of everything above compresses lower levels in a planet.
With enough pressure, Hydrogen can turn from a gas into a metal!
 AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 6

 Jupiter’s core is about 10 times the mass of the Earth.
Because of the extreme pressure, Jupiter’s core is compressed to about the size of the Earth.
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 7

 Saturn is 3.3 times less massive than Jupiter, so the lower levels are compressed less. So it ends up being nearly the same size.
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 8

 AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 9

  The rotation of Uranus is tipped on it’s side, compared to the plane of the ecliptic.
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 10

 Clicker Quiz
• The rotation of Uranus is tipped on it’s side, compared to the plane of the ecliptic.
A. This is typical according to nebular theory for the formation of gas giants
B. This is evidence that Uranus suffered a significant collision in the early solar system.
C. This is evidence that Uranus formed outside the solar system, and was captured by the Sun
D. Orbits this far out from the sun are so slow, that nothing can really be deduced from this.
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 11

  The force of gravity changes with distance.
This causes tidal squeezing.
The effect is larger when objects are closer.
tidal heating
   (orbital eccentricity greatly exaggerated)
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 12

  a 1:2:4
orbital resonance
(distances not to scale; also, they don’t really line up on one side)
This causes the moons to be in elliptical orbits.
    AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 13

   high geologic activity
low geologic activity
   AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 14

 Planetary Rings
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 15

 Planetary Rings
 Saturn’s Rings (Cassini)
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 16

  Jupiter’s rings as seen by New Horizons
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 17

 Uranus’ rings as seen by the Keck Telescope
using adaptive optics
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 18

 Uranus’ rings and
several of its moons,
as seen by Hubble.
(Credit: NASA/JPL/STScI)
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 19

  Neptune’s rings as seen by Voyager 2
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 20

 The diameter of the rings is over 260,000 km, but they are less than 0.1km thick.
 AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 21

  AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 22

  AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 23

 AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 24

 AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 25

 AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 26

 Huygens gap Mimas
   Mimas creates the Huygens gap via a 2:1 resonance
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 27

  Pan creates the Encke gap in Saturn’s rings
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 28

  Moons can cause gaps in rings.
• Moon orbits slower than inner ring particle
• pulls ring particle backward and slows it down
• so, inner particle falls inward
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 29

  Moons can cause gaps in rings.
• Moon orbits faster than outer ring particle
• pulls ring particle forward – speeds it up
• so, outer particle is pushed outward
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 30

  Pan creates the Encke gap in Saturn’s rings
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 31

  Pandora
Shepherd moons around Saturn’s F-ring (Cassini)
Prometheus
 AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 32

 Shepherd moons work together to
produce very narrow rings.
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 33

  Pandora
Shepherd moons around Saturn’s F-ring (Cassini)
Prometheus
 AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 34

   Shepherd moons around Uranus’εring AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 35

 Where do Rings come from?
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 36

 Close to planets, tidal forces become stronger than self-gravity.
So large moons can’t hold themselves together.
So there can’t be large moons close to planets.
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 37

 In 1994, comet
Shoemaker-Levy 9 was
destroyed by Jupiter’s
tidal gravity and
smashed into Jupiter.
(Credits: NASA/JPL)
 AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 38

 Where do Rings come from?
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 39

 Where do Rings come from?
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 40

 Where do Rings come from?
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 41

  Rings are actually made up of millions of tiny particles,
likely the product of collisions with and between moons.
(Credit: NASA/JPL/University of Colorado)
  AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 42

  Ring particle shadows (Credit: Cassin)
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 43

  Jupiter’s rings in silhouette (Credit: Galileo)
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 44

   assini
explored Saturn
 nd its moons from 2004 to 2017.
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 45
C
a

 Clicker Quiz
A large (1500km) cratered moon orbits inside the stable rings of a several billion year old planet around a distant star. This is
a) Likely because the density would have been larger there, promoting growth because there is more material.
b) Unlikely, because it would have been inside the planet’s frost line, so ices couldn’t form a moon.
c) Unlikely, because tidal heating would have caused volcanism, erasing the craters
d) Impossible, because the tidal forces that created the rings would have destroyed the moon.
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 46

 Some of the 182 Moons in the Solar System
 AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 47

 Saturn’s Moon Titan
 [Cassini/Nasa]
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 48

 Pressure
Nitrogen
Lakes
Weather
Oxygen Surface Liquids Temperature
Titan
1.5 atm 90% Yes
Yes
0%
Ices Hydrocarbons -180C
Earth
1 atm 77% Yes Yes
23% Rocks Water 20 C
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 49
  
  Cassini’s Infrared camera could see through Titan’s clouds!
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 50

  Clouds on Titan from Cassini
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 51

  Cassini dropped the Huygens probe which landed on Titan
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 52

  Huygens probe sees lakes and rivers on the way to the surface!
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 53

  A picture by the Huygens probe from the surface of Titan!
Those ‘rocks’ are actually Water Ice!
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 54

 Some of the 182 Moons in the Solar System
 AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 55

  Iapetus – moon of Saturn [Cassini]
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 56

   The other side of Iapetus [Cassini]
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 57

 Iapetus
• Very old cratered surface.
• Mostly made of Ices
• White is the natural color
• Brown is a thin layer over the Ice (from where?)
• Giant ridge along the equator on the dark side. (Why?)
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 58

 No one knows what caused this giant ridge along the equator.
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 59

 Some of the 182 Moons in the Solar System
 AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 60

 Rhea–moonofSaturn[Cassini] AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 61

 Some of the 182 Moons in the Solar System
 AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 62

 Enceladus
• Mostly made of Ices with rocky core
• Bright white
• Parts of surface are cratered
and old (billions of years)
• Parts are crater free and young (<100 million years)
• Active water geysers.
• Huge subsurface ocean over the whole moon.
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 63

 Clicker Quiz
Enceladus has large portions of un-cratered surface, while Rhea and Iapetus are heavily cratered. From this, we might guess
A. Enceladus was formed much later than Rhea and Iapetus
B. Enceladus is in an orbital resonance with another moon, causing an elliptical orbit and tidal heating.
C. Enceladus is orbiting closer to the sun, so it is warmer, producing geological activity.
D. Enceladus was protected from craters by something.
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 64

 Some of the 182 Moons in the Solar System
 AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 65

 Hyperion
• Made mostly of water Ice
• Heavily cratered
• Very porous – 40% empty space
• Chaotic Rotation
[Cassini]
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 66

 Some of the 182 Moons in the Solar System
 AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 67

 Moons of Uranus
 AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 68

  Miranda (Credit: Voyager 2)
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 69

  Best Picture we have of Titania,
The largest moon of Uranus
[Voyager 2]
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 70

 Some of the 182 Moons in the Solar System
 AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 71

  Neptune’s moon Triton Temperature: -235C Surface is mainly frozen nitrogen!
Almost no atmosphere.
Geologically active!
(but water and ammonia, Instead of lava)
 Orbits Neptune backwards!
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 72

 Clicker Quiz
Triton orbits Neptune backwards – in the opposite direction of Neptune’s rotation.
A. This is expected by the nebular theory for moons forming around gas giants
B. This is evidence that Neptune suffered a significant collision in the early solar system.
C. This is evidence that Triton was a dwarf planet (like Pluto) before it was captured by Neptune.
D. Orbits this far out from the sun are so slow, that nothing
can really be deduced from this.
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 73

 
 Clicker Quiz
• The rotation of Uranus is tipped on it’s side, compared to the plane of the ecliptic.
A. This is typical according to nebular theory for the formation of gas giants
B. This is evidence that Uranus suffered a significant collision in the early solar system.
C. This is evidence that Uranus formed outside the solar system, and was captured by the Sun
D. Orbits this far out from the sun are so slow, that nothing can really be deduced from this.
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 75

 Clicker Quiz
Enceladus has large portions of un-cratered surface, while Rhea and Iapetus are heavily cratered. From this, we might guess
A. Enceladus was formed much later than Rhea and Iapetus
B. Enceladus is in an orbital resonance with another moon, causing an elliptical orbit and tidal heating.
C. Enceladus is orbiting closer to the sun, so it is warmer, producing geological activity.
D. Enceladus was protected from craters by something.
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 76

 Clicker Quiz
A large (1500km) cratered moon orbits inside the stable rings of a several billion year old planet around a distant star. This is
a) Likely because the density would have been larger there, promoting growth because there is more material.
b) Unlikely, because it would have been inside the planet’s frost line, so ices couldn’t form a moon.
c) Unlikely, because tidal heating would have caused volcanism, erasing the craters
d) Impossible, because the tidal forces that created the rings would have destroyed the moon.
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 77

 Clicker Quiz
Triton orbits Neptune backwards – in the opposite direction of Neptune’s rotation.
A. This is expected by the nebular theory for moons forming around gas giants
B. This is evidence that Neptune suffered a significant collision in the early solar system.
C. This is evidence that Triton was a dwarf planet (like Pluto) before it was captured by Neptune.
D. Orbits this far out from the sun are so slow, that nothing
can really be deduced from this.
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 78

 Get your clicker ready!
1. Press and hold the On/Off button until the Power indicator light begins flashing.
2. Enter the 2-character frequency code 'AA' using the buttons (A B C D) on the clicker.
For iClicker REEF:
• University of Toronto – St. George
• Course AST101FALL2018 – The Sun
and its Neighbours
 Practice Quiz
(Not for Marks)
A) Vger
B) Magellan
C) Cartier
D) Dave Bowman E) Amundsen
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 1

  AST 101
THE SUN AND ITS NEIGHBOURS
ast101
   @astro.utoronto.ca
AST101|UofT|Prof.Netterfield| 2

 Announcements
The Observing Project is due next Monday, November 26 at 11:59pm.
Upload well before then, in case there are problems!
Course evaluations are now open
q.utoronto.ca or by an email link you received
These are really useful! Please fill them out for all your classes!
AST 101 | UofT | Dr. Netterfield | 3

 The diameter of Saturn’s rings is over 260,000 km, but they are less than 0.1km thick.
Why??
 AST 101 | UofT | Dr. Netterfield | 4

 The diameter of Saturn’s rings is over 260,000 km, but they are less than 0.1km thick.
 Particles in tilted orbits collide
  And come out closer to the plane of the ring.
After many collisions they are all in the same plane – so you get a very thin ring.
   AST 101 | UofT | Dr. Netterfield | 5

 The Solar System
AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield | 6

 AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield | 7

 Looking at the sky
The Human eye has a resolution of about 1/60 of a degree.
It is not enough to see many details when we look at the Moon.
 AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield | 8

  Angular Size
The angular size of an object depends on
• how big it is
and
• how far away it is
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 9

 Angles are measured in degrees. A right (square) angle is 90o
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 10

 Warning: Not Exact!!!
EstimatingAngles AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 11

 Looking at the sky
The Human eye has a resolution of about 1/60 of a degree.
It is not enough to see many details when we look at the Moon.
 AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield | 12

 Looking at the sky
Looking at the moon with a telescope, we can do better.
AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield | 13

 Looking at the sky
Looking at the moon with a telescope, we can do better.
But there is a limit because of the atmosphere.
AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield | 14

 Looking at the sky
The earth’s atmosphere blurs out our image, even with a telescope. The limit is around 1/3600 of a degree in the best weather
[Cory Schmitz/youtube]
AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield | 15

 Some types of light don’t even make it to the Earth’s surface, but are absorbed by the atmosphere instead
AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield | 16

 The Hubble Space Telescope is in Earth’s orbit.
It is not effected by
the earth’s
atmosphere.
AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield | 17

 The Hubble Space Telescope is in Earth’s orbit where there is no atmosphere.
Its resolution is 10 times better than on the ground: 1/36,000 of a degree
AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield | 18

 The Hubble Space Telescope is in Earth’s orbit where there is no atmosphere.
Its resolution is 10 times better than on the ground: 1/36,000 of a degree
The Hubble space telescope could see the 1mm eye of a needle from 2 km away.
 AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield | 19

 Clicker Quiz
The Hubble Space Telescope can see much more detail than a telescope on the ground. Why?
A) It is in space, so it is closer to the moon/planets.
B) It is much larger than a ground based telescope.
C) In space there are no vibrations.
D) The atmosphere doesn’t blur the image.
AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield | 20

  The Hubble Space Telescope’s resolution is 1/36,000 of a degree.
This isn’t really good enough.
AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield | 21

  Solution:
Go visit!
AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield | 22

  Probe
Fuel Oxygen
Launch Vehicles
To go fast enough to get to
orbit launch vehicles are
mostly fuel (and oxidizer)
There is no air to burn so rockets have to bring their own oxygen
    Fuel
Delta IV Heavy
AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield | 23

  Probe
Fuel Oxygen
Delta IV Heavy + Parker Solar Probe
  Probe:
Launch Vehicle:
Oxygen/Fuel:
865 kg
81,500 kg
628,000 kg
  Fuel
That is a lot of fuel.
What if something goes wrong?
Delta IV Heavy
AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield | 24

 AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield | 25

 Travel Times
The New Horizons mission travelling to Pluto was launched with a speed of 58,500 km/hr.
At this speed, how long would it take to get from earth to each of the planets (when they are at the closest point of their orbit)?
     Planet
Distance to Earth
(Millions of km)
Travel Time
(Days)
Mercury
92
66
Venus
41
29
Earth
0
0
Mars
79
56
Jupiter
631
449
Saturn
1228
875
Uranus
2722
1939
Neptune
4381
3120
                  AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield | 26

 Flyby Probes: Go very fast and fly by the target
Voyager 2
Launched 1977 Visited:
Jupiter: 1979 Saturn: 1981 Uranus: 1986 Neptune: 1989
AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield | 27

 Flyby Probes: Go very fast and fly by the target
Voyager 2
Launched 1977 Visited:
Jupiter: 1979 Saturn: 1981 Uranus: 1986 Neptune: 1989
 [Phoenix777/Wikipedia]
AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield | 28

 Voyager 2: Slingshot Maneuvers
Voyager 2 was launched below
solar system escape velocity
As it flew to the outer solar system, gravity from the sun slowed it down.
It sped up again when it passed Jupiter, Saturn and Uranus.
    AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield | 29

 Voyager 2: Slingshot Maneuvers
Allows a spacecraft to speed up and change direction without using fuel.
The direction has to be right to start With. Only small corrections are possible otherwise.
AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield | 30

 Voyager 2: Slingshot Maneuvers
Voyager 2
Used slingshot maneuvers around Jupiter, Saturn, and Uranus to speed up and change direction
 [Phoenix777/Wikipedia]
AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield | 31

 Communication time
Light (including radio waves) travel at 300,000 km/s.
So... it takes time for the radio waves to get to earth from the spacecraft!
The table is the 1 way communication time when the planets are closest to earth.
     Planet
Distance to Earth
(Millions of km)
Communication Time (min)
Mercury
92
4
Venus
41
2
Earth
0
0
Mars
79
3
Jupiter
631
25
Saturn
1228
49
Uranus
2722
108
Neptune
4381
173
                    AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield | 32

  Communications
   Dish on the spacecraft to beam the signal back to earth
Giant dishes on earth to receive the weak signal (Deep Space Network)
AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield | 33

   Voyager 2: Gallery
         AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield | 34

 Orbital Probes: Go slower, and orbit the planet
 Cassini
Launched: 1987 Arrived at Saturn:
2004 End of Mission:
2017
AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield | 35

 Cassini: Mission to Saturn Cassini
Launched too slow to make it to Saturn
Used slingshot maneuver around Venus, Earth, and Jupiter to (barely) make it.
Still used a lot of fuel to enter orbit.
 [Phoenix777/Wikipedia]
AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield | 36

 [Phoenix777/Wikipedia]
Cassini: Mission to Saturn Cassini
 Saturn
Titan
Iapitus
Orbited Saturn from 2004 to 2017
Imaged moons, the rings, Saturn.
AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield | 37

  Cassini: Mission to Saturn
   [Phoenix777/Wikipedia]
AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield | 38

 Missions to Venus...
(What is below all those clouds?)
Let’s try to land and find out.
 AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 39

    1961: Venera 1 lost contact
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 40

   1964: Venera 1964A launch failure
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 41

   1964: Venera 1964B launch failure
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 42

   1964: Zond 1 Failed on the way to Venus
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 43

   1965: Venera 2 failed to return data
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 44

   1965: Venera 3 Communications failure. Crashed on Venus?
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 45

   1967: Venera 4
Reached the atmosphere of Venus! Measured Atmosphere!
CO2 , no O2
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 46

   1969: Venera 5
Survived for 53 minutes
in the atmosphere, then crushed before reaching the ground
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 47

   1969: Venera 6
Survived for 51 minutes
in the atmosphere, then crushed before reaching the ground
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 48

   1970: Venera 7
Semi-crashed, but sent back data from the ground
T = 475 C!
Oven Temperature!
P = 90 Atmospheres!
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 49

   1972: Venera 8
Survived for 50 minutes on Venus! Determined cameras could be used (if you
could get one there!)
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 50

  1975: Venera 9
First picture of the surface of Venus!
 AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 51

  1975: Venera 10 Sent back pictures Almost no wind!
 AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 52

   1978: Venera 11 Sent back data but
Lens cap stuck.
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 53

   1978: Venera 12 Lens cap stuck again. Lightning on
surface!
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 54

  1981: Venera 13
First colour picture from the surface of Venus!
 AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 55

  1981: Venera 14 More Pictures!
Lens cap fell in the way of the soil tester
 AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 56

   1984: Vega 1
Balloon flew at least 8500 km!
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 57

   1984: Vega 2 Survived for 56 minutes on the surface
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 58

 Missions to Venus...
(What is below all those clouds?)
Let’s try to land and find out.
This is very hard. You have to Launch
Get to the Planet Slow Down
Land
Survive
Send back data
 AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 59

 Landing on Mars: Curiosity Rover
Venus has a thick atmosphere, so you can use a parachute.
Mars has a thin atmosphere, so you also have to do something else.
Aerobraking: slow down using the thin atmosphere
Parachute: slow down more using the thin atmosphere
Small rockets for a soft landing.
   AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 60

  The Curiosity Rover has been driving around mars since 2012, taking pictures and measuring rock and soil properties.
It has travelled 20km (it moves slowly)
 AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 61

 Clicker Quiz
A Rover that could drive around on Venus for a few years would be extremely challenging because:
A) Venus is much further away than Mars
B) Venus is too hot for current electronics to operate
C) Radio waves for communications couldn’t make it
through the thick atmosphere
D) All of the above
E) None of the above
AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield | 62

 Clicker Quiz
Mars rovers tend to move very slowly because
A) The gravity on mars is lower, so there isn’t enough grip to move fast
B) They are remote controlled, so the 10-20 min communication delay prevents quick responses
C) The terrain is too rough to ever move quickly
D) To save fuel
AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield | 63

  Sample Return Missions: the hardest of them all
You have to • Launch
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 64

  Sample Return Missions: the hardest of them all
You have to • Launch • Get there
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 65

 Sample Return Missions: the hardest of them all
You have to • Launch • Get there • Land
 AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 66

 Sample Return Missions: the hardest of them all
You have to • Launch • Get there • Land
• Collect samples
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 67

 Sample Return Missions: the hardest of them all
You have to
• Launch
• Get there
• Land
• Collect samples
• Launch again
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 68

 Sample Return Missions: the hardest of them all
You have to
• Launch
• Get there
• Land
• Collect samples
• Launch again
• Get back to Earth
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 69

 Sample Return Missions: the hardest of them all
You have to
• Launch
• Get there
• Land
• Collect samples
• Launch again
• Get back to Earth
• Land
AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 70

  Japanese Space Agency: Hayabusa2
Currently at asteroid Ryugu to collect samples.
 AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 71

 Power: Satellites operating closer to the Sun than Jupiter use solar panels to convert sunlight to electricity.
    AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 72

 Power: Sunlight gets weaker further from the sun. At Saturn it is 30 times less than on earth, so deep space probes can’t.
Deep space probes like Voyager and Cassini use a simple nuclear power source called an RTG.
They can provide power for decades.
  AST101|UofT|Dr.Netterfield| 73

 Clicker Quiz
A new probe is being planned to visit the asteroid belt. How will the electronics probably be powered.
A) A hydrogen fuel cell which converts oxygen and
hydrogen into water and electricity
B) An RTG, which is a form of nuclear power
C) Long Life non-rechargeable light-weight batteries
D) Solar Panels
E) A flux modulator, which converts the Solar Corona
into electricity
AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield | 74

 AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield | 75

 Clicker Quiz
The Hubble Space Telescope can see much more detail than a telescope on the ground. Why?
A) It is in space, so it is closer to the moon/planets.
B) It is much larger than a ground based telescope.
C) In space there are no vibrations.
D) The atmosphere doesn’t blur the image.
AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield | 76

 Clicker Quiz
A Rover that could drive around on Venus for a few years would be extremely challenging because:
A) Venus is much further away than Mars
B) Venus is too hot for current electronics to operate
C) Radio waves for communications couldn’t make it through the thick atmosphere
D) All of the above
E) None of the above
AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield | 77

 Clicker Quiz
Mars rovers tend to move very slowly because
A) The gravity on mars is lower, so there isn’t enough grip to move fast
B) They are remote controlled, so the 10-20 min communication delay prevents quick responses
C) The terrain is too rough to ever move quickly
D) To save fuel
AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield | 78

 Clicker Quiz
A new probe is being planned to visit the asteroid belt. How will the electronics probably be powered.
A) A hydrogen fuel cell which converts oxygen and
hydrogen into water and electricity
B) An RTG, which is a form of nuclear power
C) Long Life non-rechargeable light-weight batteries
D) Solar Panels
E) A flux modulator, which converts the Solar Corona
into electricity
AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Netterfield | 79

  AST 101 THE SUN AND ITS NEIGHBOURS
ast101@astro.utoronto.ca
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 1
 
 Announcement
Please don’t forget to fill out your course evaluation (Deadline: December 7th)
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 2

 Extrasolar Planets: The Transit Method
 Image Credit: NASA
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 3

 Exoplanets
 Image Credit: NASA / Kepler
• “Extrasolar planet” or “exoplanet”
- a planet orbiting a star other than the Sun
• Naming system:
- star: “Gaensler 38”
- planet 1: “Gaensler 38b” - planet 2: “Gaensler 38c” - etc
• The pretty pictures you see of exoplanets are just artist’s impressions! (for now ...)
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 4

 Exoplanets Are Hard To See Directly (I)
 Credit: http://www.flickr.com/photos/mikelietz/2750027597/
• Exoplanets are very faint compared to, and typically are very close to, their parent star
• Through a standard telescope, this makes them essentially invisible
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 5

  Exoplanets Are Hard To See Directly (II)
mess left over after subtracting starlight from the image
• In a few cases, we have been able to block out the bright light from the parent star, revealing the faint surrounding planets
• However, the vast majority of exoplanets (thousands of cases) have been found by indirect methods
  Credit:©2014PearsonEducation,Inc.
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 6

  Finding Exoplanets
• Two indirect methods of finding exoplanets have proven very successful:
1. The transit method [2865 exoplanets as of Nov 22, 2018]
2. The Doppler (radial velocity) (wobble) method [784 exoplanets]
Credits:©2014PearsonEducation,Inc. AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 7
      
  The Transit Method
• When one celestial object passes in front of another from our point of view, it is called a transit
       transit
Credit:©2014PearsonEducation,Inc. AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 8
 
 The Transit of Venus in Front of the Sun
• The 2012 transit of Venus, seen using our own 8-inch telescope here at UofT.
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 9
  transit

  The Sun’s Light During a Transit of Venus
What we see through a telescope (“image”)
How the total brightness changes (“light curve”)
Credit: NASA Ames and Dana Berry
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 10
  
  We can’t see an image
We can still measure the light curve!
Credit: NASA Ames and Dana Berry
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 11
Exoplanet Transits (I)
  
 Clicker Quiz – 60 Seconds
The difference between an image and a light curve is:
A. A light curve studies a planet while an image studies an exoplanet.
B. A light curve combines all the light in the image.
C. A light curve is the spectrum of the image.
D. An image is made using visual light, while a light curve is made using radio waves.
E. Light curves can only be made for the Sun, while images can only be made for distant stars.
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 40

  •
• •
Exoplanet Transits (II)
Transits occur only if the planet’s orbit happens to be edge on as viewed from Earth – most exoplanets never produce a transit
Transits can be brief (an hour or two) – need to be watching at the right time Dip in light curve can be tiny ( < 0.1%) – need very precise measurements
      Credit:©2014PearsonEducation,Inc. AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 13

 Exoplanet Transits (III)
• The transit method easily reveals multiple planets around the same star: a solar system!
Credit:©2014PearsonEducation,Inc. AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 14
  
  Transits and Eclipses (I)
• Transits are when the exoplanet passes in front of its parent star
• Half an orbit later, the star passes in front of the planet, producing an eclipse
• Often the eclipse is too faint to see
 3 = transit (deep)
6 = eclipse (shallow)
 Credit:©2014PearsonEducation,Inc.
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 15

 Transits and Eclipses (II)
Credit:NASASpitzer AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 16
 
 Clicker Quiz – 60 Seconds
In an exoplanet light curve, why is the eclipse shallow while the transit is deep?
A. The exoplanet is moving faster than its parent star.
B. The exoplanet is spinning faster than its parent star.
C. The exoplanet is fainter than its parent star.
D. The exoplanet is edge-on in its orbit around its parent star.
E. The exoplanet is very close to its parent star.
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 41

  1. 2. 3. 4.
What We Can Learn From Transits & Eclipses
We found an exoplanet !
The orbit must be edge-on or nearly edge-on
We can calculate the orbital period of the exoplanet
Using Kepler’s Third Law, we can use the period to calculate the distance of the exoplanet from its parent star
transits
one orbit
eclipses
AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Gaensler | 18
                                     time
amount of light

  What We Can Learn: Size
5. Wecancalculatethesizeoftheexoplanet, because the deeper the transit, the bigger the planet
Credit: NASA AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Gaensler | 19
 
  What We Can Learn: Temperature (I)
6. During a transit, an exoplanet shows different phases and hence different depths of transit
- difference between “night” and “day” sides gives temperature
  time 1: Earth sees mix of cold and hot sides
to distant Earth
time 2: Earth sees only cold side, so infrared emission falls
time 3: Earth sees mix of cold and hot sides, so infrared flux goes back up
AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Gaensler | 20
           parent star

 What We Can Learn: Temperature (II)
Credit: NASA / JPL-Caltech / H. Knutson AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Gaensler | 21
 
  What We Can Learn: Atmosphere
7. We can determine the atmospheric composition
a) 1 and 4 are the combined light from star plus exoplanet b) 6 (eclipse) is the light from the star only
c) subtract (b) from (a) : light of the planet only!
d) repeat at different wavelengths: spectrum of the planet!
Credit: © 2014 Pearson Education, Inc. AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Gaensler | 22
 
 Isolating an Exoplanet’s Spectrum
AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Gaensler | 23

  Kepler: A Transit Machine (I)
  Credit: NASA Ames / W.Stenzel
• From 2009 to 2018, NASA’s Kepler telescope used the transit method to find thousands of exoplanets and exoplanet candidates
AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Gaensler | 24

 Kepler: A Transit Machine (II)
 Credit: NASA
AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Gaensler | 25

 Kepler: A Transit Machine (III)
 Credit: © Ethan Krause
AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Gaensler | 26

 Kepler: A Transit Machine (IV)
 Credit: Jon Lomberg
AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Gaensler | 27

 Kepler: Extended Mission
 Credit: NASA / Ames Research Center / Wendy Stenzel
AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Gaensler | 28

 Kepler: A Transit Machine (V)
 Credit: NASA
AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Gaensler | 29

 Kepler: A Transit Machine (VI)
 Credit: © Ethan Krause
AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Gaensler | 30

 Credit: Wikipedia / Jun-Dai
AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Gaensler | 31
Kepler: A Transit Machine (VII)

  Clicker Quiz – 60 Seconds
How many exoplanets are represented by this light curve?
A. 1 B. 2 C. 3 D. 6 E. 8
time
    AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 42
amount of light

  Clicker Quiz – 60 Seconds
How many orbits of an exoplanet are represented by this light curve?
A. 1 B. 1.5 C. 3 D. 5 E. 6
time
     AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 43
amount of light

  AST 101 THE SUN AND ITS NEIGHBOURS
ast101@astro.utoronto.ca
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 1
 
 Announcement
Please don’t forget to fill out your course evaluation (Deadline: December 7th)
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 2

 What Have We Learned: Sizes of Planets (I)
 4034 Kepler planets as of June 2017
Image Credit: NASA Ames / W. Stenzel
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 3

 What Have We Learned: Sizes of Planets (II)
• Kepler has shown that there are many more small planets than large ones
• The numbers of small planets are all huge underestimates, because small planets are much harder to find
 Earth “Super- Neptune Jupiter Earth”
Image Credit: NASA/Ames Research Center/CalTech/University of Hawaii/B.J. Fulton
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 4

 What Have We Learned: Spectra & Atmospheres
 Image Credit: NASA / JPL- Caltech / C. J. Grillmail
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 5

  Strengths and Weaknesses of the Transit Method
• Strengths:
- Does not need a big telescope
- Can detect very small exoplanets - Only possible way of
measuring exoplanet sizes
- Can study many stars at once
- Gives atmospheric composition
if we can see eclipses
• Weaknesses:
                             time
- Can only see exoplanets in the rare case their orbits are edge-on
- Needs continuous monitoring to ensure transits are not missed and to measure orbital periods
- Finding small exoplanets is only possible from space
- Biased toward close-in exoplanets
AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Gaensler | 6
amount of light

 Transiting Exoplanet Survey Satellite (TESS)
 Image Credit: NASA / GSFC
• Launched
April 18th, 2018
• Will look for transits toward 500,000 stars covering 85% of the sky
• First planet announced September 16th, 2018
• Expected to find 20,000 transiting exoplanets in next couple of years!
AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Gaensler | 7

 Extrasolar Planets: The Doppler Method
 Image Credit: NASA
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 8

 The Doppler Effect for Light
 Credit: The Cosmic Perspective
• Sources moving towards you shift to higher frequency (shorter wavelengths)
• Sources moving away from you shift to lower frequency (longer wavelength)
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 9

 Spectrum of the Sun
 Credit: N.A.Sharp, NOAO/NSO/Kitt Peak FTS/AURA/NSF
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 10

  The Doppler Effect for Light: Spectra
Object 1: At rest, emission (or absorption) lines are at the wavelengths we expect
Object 2: Lines shifted to longer wavelength (“redshift”) – moving away from us.
Object 3: lines shifted farther – moving away from us faster
Object 4: Lines shifter to shorter wavelength (“blueshift”) – moving toward us
Object 5: Lines shifted farther – moving toward us faster.
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 11
 1 2
3 4
5
Credit: The Cosmic Perspective

  Doppler Only Measures Line of Sight
  Credit: The Cosmic Perspective
• • • •
An object moving directly away: - we measure all of its speed
Moving across our line of sight: - we measure none of its speed
Moving diagonally:
- we measure only part of its speed
In all cases, the only part of the motion can we measure is the radial velocity
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 12

  Orbits (I)
• Kepler’s First Law: Planets orbit the sun in an elliptical pattern, with the Sun at one focus
• Kepler’s First Law is a little bit wrong: planets do not orbit stars!
   AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 13

  centre of mass
Orbits (II)
• Kepler’s First Law: Planets orbit the sun in an elliptical pattern, with the Sun at one focus
• Kepler’s First Law is a little bit wrong: planets do not orbit stars!
• Planets and stars orbit their
common centre of mass
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 14
      
  Orbits (III)
• Moststarsaremuchmoremassivethantheirplanets
• Therefore,centreofmass(•)iscloseto,butnotat,centreofthestar(•) • Fromourperspective,thestarwobblestowardus&awayfromus
  ••
 AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 15

 Clicker Quiz – 60 Seconds
What happens to the Earth as the Moon orbits every 27.3 days?
A. The Earth travels in a straight line.
B. The Earth orbits the Earth-Moon centre of mass every 27.3 days.
C. The Earth revolves on its axis every 27.3 days.
D. The Earth obeys Kepler’s 1st and 2nd Law, but not the 3rd Law.
E. The Earth varies its axial tilt every 27.3 days.
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 38

 The Doppler Method (I)
 Credit:©2014PearsonEducation,Inc.
• Theexoplanetmovesinalarge orbit, but the exoplanet is too faint to see
• Theparentstarmovesinatiny orbit, and is bright enough to see!
• WecanusetheDopplereffect applied to the spectrum of the star to measure the radial velocity (wobble) of the star as it orbits the centre of mass
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 17

  unseen planet
The Doppler Method (II)
   astronomers on Earth
   parent star
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 18

  The Doppler Method (III)
      blueshift
spectrum of the star (not the planet!)
wavelength
(Doppler shift greatly exaggerated for clarity)
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 19
      redshift

 Clicker Quiz – 60 Seconds
The Doppler shift of the parent star in an exoplanet system will be:
A. Large, because the star is always moving toward us.
B. Large, because the star is spinning faster than the exoplanet.
C. Small,becausethestarismuchheavierthantheexoplanet.
D. Small,becausetheexoplanetisablackbody.
E. Zero, because the star is always moving away from us.
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 39

  The First Extrasolar Planet
 time (days)
Credit:©2014PearsonEducation,Inc.
• PeriodicDopplershiftsofthestar “51 Pegasi” indirectly revealed an orbiting exoplanet, 51 Pegasi b
• Radialvelocitypeakedat
around 60 m/s = 216 kph
(state of the art: 5 cm/s = 0.2 kph !)
• Thiswasthefirstextrasolarplanet to be discovered around a Sun-like star (1995)
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 21
velocity (metres per second)

  What Can We Learn From the Doppler Method?
 time (days)
Credit:©2014PearsonEducation,Inc.
1. We found an exoplanet!
2. Orbit cannot be face-on (why?)
3. We can calculate the orbital period (in this case: 4 days)
4. UsingKepler’sThirdLaw,we can use the period to calculate the distance of the exoplanet from its parent star
5. The velocity change gives us the star’s speed, which (if we know the star’s mass) tells us the exoplanet’s mass
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 22
velocity (metres per second)

  What Can We Learn About 51 Pegasi b?
 time (days)
Credit:©2014PearsonEducation,Inc.
1. Orbital period: 4d, 5h, 32m, 20s (Earth: 365d, 5h, 48m, 8s !)
2. Semi-majoraxis=0.053AU (Mercury: 0.39 AU !)
3. Mass: 0.47 MJupiter (Earth: 0.003 MJupiter !)
• A planet half the mass of Jupiter, 7 times closer to its sun than Mercury, orbiting every 4 days!
• Completely different planet (and solar system) to anything here
→ The first “hot Jupiter” AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 23
velocity (metres per second)

 Hot Jupiters
 Credit:NASA/ESA/G.Bacon(STScI)
•
Hot Jupiters like
51 Peg b have proven to be the most common type of exoplanet found in both transit and Doppler searches for exoplanets
They are completely at odds with the Nebular Hypothesis!
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 24
•

 Clicker Quiz – 60 Seconds
Why are hot Jupiters at odds with nebular theory?
A. Jovian planets should orbit in the opposite direction to this.
B. Jovian planets should rotate on their axes much more slowly than this.
C. Jovian planets should be much larger than this.
D. Jovian planets should have more geological activity than this.
E. Jovian planets should be much farther from their parent stars than this.
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 40

 Hot Jupiters & Planetary Migration
 Credit:bigpicturescience.org
• Hot Jupiters like 51 Peg b have proven to be the most common type of exoplanet found in both transit and Doppler searches for exoplanets
• They are completely at odds with the nebular theory!
• Current thinking:
hot Jupiters form in the outer solar system, but then move inward via “planetary migration”
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 26

  Why Are Hot Jupiters So Common?
  Credit:©2014PearsonEducation,Inc.
• Hot Jupiters are relatively easy to find in Doppler or transit searches
• Doppler: heavy and close-in means they produce a large wobble in their parent star
• Transit: large and close-in means they produce a deep transit in the parent star’s light curve
• Close-in means wobbles or transits repeat themselves quickly
• The dominance of hot Jupiters is an observational bias
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 27

  The Inclination Problem (I)
Edge-on Face on
         Inclined
          AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 28

  The Inclination Problem (II)
• One catch to the Doppler method: - we only measure radial velocity!
• This means that:
- if the orbit is edge-on, we see all the
star’s motion
- if the orbit is inclined, we see some of the star’s motion
- if the orbit is face-on, we see none of the star’s motion (and can’t detect the exoplanet at all)
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 29
                 
  The Inclination Problem (III)
• It’s usually impossible to determine the inclination of the orbit
• This means that when we find an exoplanet via the Doppler method:
- we only have a lower limit on the true Doppler velocity
- we only know the minimum possible mass of the exoplanet!
• Iftheexoplanetalsotransits,weknow it must be orbiting edge-on, and so we know its actual mass (plus its size)
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 30
                 
  Strengths and Weaknesses of the Doppler Method
• Strengths:
- Does not need continuous monitoring
- Works for any orientation of the exoplanet’s orbit (besides face-on)
- Very good for massive planets in close-in orbits
• Weaknesses:
- Needs a big telescope to measure spectra and Doppler shifts
- Can only measure a minimum mass unless inclination is known
- Can only study one star at a time - Biased toward close-in exoplanets
 Credit: © 2014 Pearson Education, Inc.
AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Gaensler | 31
time (days)
velocity (m/s)

  Combining the Transit and Doppler Methods
• The transit method gives us an exoplanet’s size and inclination
• The Doppler method gives us an exoplanet’s mass
• Combining these, we can work out the exoplanet’s density,
with which we can begin to figure out its interior composition
Credit: Planetary Habitability Laboratory (UPR Arecibo) AST 101 | UofT | Prof. Gaensler | 32
 
   What Have We Learned: Densities (I)
• Graphplotsmass (horizontal axis) vs size (vertical axis)
• Dottedlinesshowvarious possible densities
• Solarsystemplanetsare shown in green
• Selectedtransiting exoplanets are shown in red
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 33
planetary mass (Jupiter units)
      density of styrofoam
density of water
density of lead
Credit: © 2014 Pearson Education, Inc.
planetary radius (Earth units)

 Clicker Quiz – 60 Seconds
How are the Doppler and transit method combined to determine the density of an exoplanet?
A. Seeing an eclipse gives us the exoplanet’s mass, while seeing a wobble gives us the exoplanet’s size.
B. Frequent transits and Doppler shifts imply a denser exoplanet.
C. The depth of transit gives the exoplanet’s size, while the size of Doppler shift gives us the exoplanet’s mass.
D. Edge-on exoplanets that wobble are the densest exoplanets.
E. Subtracting a blue-shifted eclipse from a red-shifted transit gives us the exoplanet’s density.
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 41

   What Have We Learned: Densities (II)
• HAT-P-32b
 •
- slightly lighter than Jupiter, but double the diameter
- density of styrofoam!
HD 189733b
- similar mass and density to Jupiter, but closer to its parent star than Mercury
- one of many hot Jupiters
GJ 1214b
- density of water, twice the size of Earth
- a “water world”
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 35
 •
 planetary mass (Jupiter units)
         density of styrofoam
density of water
density of lead
Credit: © 2014 Pearson Education, Inc.
planetary radius (Earth units)

   What Have We Learned: Densities (III)
• COROT 7b
- double the size of Earth, but much denser
- rocky “super-Earth”, probably molten
• Kepler 10b
- double the size of Earth, density of lead
- very dense super-Earth
• Kepler 11f
- same mass as Earth, but twice the size
- very low density: “puffed up”?
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 36
   planetary mass (Jupiter units)
        density of styrofoam
density of water
density of lead
Credit: © 2014 Pearson Education, Inc.
planetary radius (Earth units)

  AST 101 THE SUN AND ITS NEIGHBOURS
ast101@astro.utoronto.ca
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 4
 
 Announcement
Please don’t forget to fill out your course evaluation (Deadline: December 7th)
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 5

 The Search for Extraterrestrial Life
 Credit: © 1982 Universal Pictures
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 6

  Credit:©20thCenturyFox
Are We Alone? (I)
• There is no scientific evidence that anyone has ever visited
• There is no evidence as yet for any life on any other world in the solar system
• There is no evidence as yet for life on any exoplanet
• There are no confirmed artificial extraterrestrial signals or messages
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 8

 Are We Alone? (II)
• Thereareapproximately400billion(400,000,000,000) stars in the Milky Way: we’ve barely started looking
Credit:Thinkstock AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 9
 
 How Did Life Begin on Earth?
• Wedon’tknowhowlifebegan! Two broad possibilities:
 -
“abiogenesis”: life arose on Earth through natural processes that converted inorganic material into the first simple life forms
(clay? lightning? deep sea vents?)
“panspermia”:lifeiseverywherein the Universe, and is transported to new planets on asteroids, comets etc
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 10
 Credits:searchoflife.com;Wikipedia/SilverSpoonSokpop
-

 What Are The Ingredients For Life?
   Credits:telwut.com;PiyushKumar
1. A source of nutrients EASY
2. Energy (sunlight, heat, etc) EASY
3. Liquid water (or another liquid) HARD
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 11

 Clicker Quiz – 60 Seconds
The ingredients for life are:
1. A source of nutrients
2. Energy (sunlight, heat, etc)
3. Liquid water (or another liquid)
On this basis, where might life in the solar system be impossible? A. InundergroundoceansonEuropa,becausethereisnosunlight. B. OnthesurfaceofVenus,becauseithasnowater.
C. In the oceans of Titan, because it is too far from the Sun.
D. On the surface of Mars, because the atmosphere is too thin.
E. IntheinteriorofEnceladus,becauseofthickiceonthesurface
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 30

 Water in the Solar System
 Credit: Doug Ellison, Emily Lakdawalla & Bob Pappalardo
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 14

 • Inoursolarsystem,wecan figure out if a moon has water beneath its surface
➞ Habitable zone : orbits where a terrestrial planet could have liquid water on its surface
• Forexoplanets(orexomoons) we can’t determine this; we can only consider surface water
The Habitable Zone (I)
 Credit: © 2014 Pearson Education
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 15

 The Habitable Zone (II)
• Wehavefoundmanyterrestrialexoplanetsinthehabitablezone
 Credit: PHL @ UPR Arecibo
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 16

 Earth Similarity Index (ESI)
• ESI is a score (from 0 to 1) that rates an exoplanet’s similarity to Earth, in terms of its size, density, escape velocity and temperature (Earth = 1.00)
• TRAPPIST-1d (2016) : ESI = 0.90 GJ 3323 b (2017): ESI = 0.89
• Kepler 438b (2015) : ESI = 0.88 Ross 128b: ESI = 0.86 (2017)
    Credits: NASA/JPL/Caltech; imgur Protojeb21; Wikipedia PN84100RAUL84100; ESO / M. Kornmesser
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 17

 Clicker Quiz – 60 Seconds
Every year, it seems there is yet another news story claiming that astronomers have discovered an exoplanet that is the “Earth’s closest twin”. What is the most likely scientific basis underlying these stories?
A. Previous claims of Earth-like exoplanets were erroneous.
B. The new exoplanet is smaller than previous exoplanets.
C. The new exoplanet has more oxygen than previous exoplanets.
D. The new exoplanet scores higher than previous exoplanets on the Earth Similarity Index.
E. The new exoplanet has more oceans than previous exoplanets.
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 31

 The Drake Equation (I)
• So if there are lots of potentially habitable exoplanets, how many exoplanets host life? How many host intelligent life?
• One way of estimating this is the
Drake Equation
 Number of intelligent civilisations = NHP x flife x fciv x fnow
(you don’t need to know this for the final exam!)
Credit:SethShostak AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 20
Frank Drake (b. 1930)

 The Drake Equation (II)
Number of intelligent civilisations = NHP x flife x fciv x fnow
• NHP = number of potentially habitable exoplanets in
the Milky Way
= approx 100 billion ?
• flife = fraction of potentially habitable planets, where life
has then arisen = ??
• fciv = fraction of planets that have life, where an intelligent
civilisation has then arisen = ??
• fnow = fraction of intelligent civilisations that are around
right now =??
Based on current knowledge, the number of intelligent civilisations
could be 1, or it could be 100 billion !!
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 21

 Clicker Quiz – 60 Seconds
The Drake Equation tells us:
A. The number of intelligent civilisations in the Galaxy.
B. The number of planets in the solar system.
C. The number of exoplanets in the habitable zone. D. The lifetime of an intelligent civilisation.
E. The probability of making contact with an alien civilisation.
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 32

 The Search for Extraterrestrial Intelligence (SETI)
• We can search for other intelligent civilisations by looking for their radio transmissions or optical transmissions
- ultimate “needle in a haystack” (right star, right frequency, right time) - can only see about 100 light years out; so far, haven’t found anything
Credits:ShaunAmy;SETIInstitute AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 23
  
 Messaging to Extraterrestrial Intelligence (METI)
• Wehaveintentionallysentradiosignalstootherworlds .... and also unintentionally! (“leakage radiation”)
- would need to wait thousands of years for a reply
Credits:thethoughtstash.wordpress.com;Seacrest/Bunim/Murray;ABCNews AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 24
   
 Enrico Fermi (1901-1954)
The Fermi Paradox
 Credit: US Department of Energy
• Optimistic view of the Drake Equation: - our Galaxy is a big place
- it can’t be that hard for life to start
- our Galaxy is billions of years old
- other civilisations have had plenty of time to explore the whole Galaxy
So ... “Where are they?” (direct quote from Fermi, 1950)
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 26

 Some of the Many Possible Solutions to the Fermi Paradox
Enrico Fermi (1901-1954)
 Credit: US Department of Energy
1. We’re alone
(Sad, but makes the Earth very precious)
2. Civilisations eventually destroy themselves (Yikes! Can we break the mould?)
3. Natural events eventually destroy civilisations (We should get looking for killer asteroids)
4. Everyone is listening, nobody’s talking (It’s a big scary Universe out there)
5. Everyone is deliberately leaving us alone (see Star Trek’s “Prime Directive”)
6. Their communications are unrecognisable (radio signals might be too primitive for them)
AST101|UofT|Prof.Gaensler| 27

 THANK YOU!

 Course resources:
quercus forums: all general questions ast101@astro.utoronto.ca: personal questions talking to TA’s and profs
+
Academic support: www.asc.utoronto.ca Accessibility services: www.accessibility.utoronto.ca
Health and wellness: https://www.studentlife.utoronto.ca/hwc
    
 Tutorial Structure
● ~2 minutes - intro clicker questions
● ~12 minutes - “Expert groups”:
discuss the question with other people who studied the same question
● ~15 minutes - “Jigsaw group”
explain your question to people who studied different questions
● ~10 minutes - class discussion
for each question, we will choose a person to explain the question to the class
● ~8 minutes - clicker questions

 Clicker Question 1
What year are you in?
A. First
B. Second C. Third
D. Fourth
E. Don’t ask

 Clicker Question 2
Why are you taking AST 101?
A. I need a science credit
B. I’ve always wanted to learn about
astronomy
C.It was recommended to me D.It fit in my schedule
E. Don’t ask

 1. State the full “cosmic address” of the Earth. Using the appropriate astronomical distance unit, what is the approximate size of each of these regions?
2. Why is the constellation of the Big Dipper always visible at night in Toronto, but other constellations like Orion are only visible at night for part of the year? When can the Big Dipper be seen from Australia?
3. What does it mean for the Earth to have an axial tilt? How would the seasons be affected if the axial tilt of the Earth were 0 degrees? What about 90 degrees?
4. Sketch a diagram explaining why we observe phases of the Moon from Earth. If we see a waning crescent from Earth, what would the moon look like to an astronaut floating in orbit around Earth? Would the appearance of the Moon change if the astronaut moves somewhere else?
5. Sketch the locations of the Earth, Moon, and Sun during both a solar and lunar eclipse. What would an astronaut standing on the Moon and facing the Earth see during each of these events?

 Clicker Question 3
The constellation Leo is visible only during the spring in Toronto. Based on this, which of the following must be true?
a. Leo is near the North Pole
b. Leo is near the South Pole
c. Leo is near the ecliptic
d. Leo is more than 23.5° above the ecliptic e. The Earth is farthest from Leo in the
spring
 
 Clicker Question 4
If there is going to be a total lunar eclipse tonight, then you know that:
a. The Moon’s phase is full
b. The Moon’s phase is new
c. The Moon is unusually close to the Earth d. The Moon is unusually far from the Earth e. There will be another lunar eclipse a
month from now
 
 Clicker Question 5
If the Earth’s axis tilt were 90° instead of 23.5°, what would the seasons in Canada be like?
 A. Seasons would no longer happen throughout the year.
90°
B. The seasons would be the same as they currently are.
C. Summers would have all-day sunlight and winters would have no sunlight.
D. Summers would occur during what are now winter months.
E. All seasons would pass in a single day.
23.5°
  
 Clicker Question 1
 
 Clicker Question 1
What was one of Copernicus’s realizations that contributed to our understanding of the Universe?
A. The Moon has craters.
B. Jupiter has its own moons. C.Planets move in circles within circles. D.The planets orbit the Earth.
E. The planets orbit the Sun.
 
 Clicker Question 2
According to Kepler’s laws, when should a comet in an elliptical orbit around the Sun be moving the slowest?
A. When it is closest to the Sun (perihelion).
B. When it is farthest from the Sun (aphelion). C.When it reaches a focus of the ellipse. D.When it is on its way in toward the Sun.
E. When it is on its way out away from the Sun.
 
 1. What were some of the limitations in the geocentric model of the universe put forth by Ptolemy? Summarize the major contributions that Copernicus, Kepler, and Galileo each made to astronomy that improved this model.
2. Planet Ayushi is in an elliptical orbit around its star. Sketch the orbit and label the points where Ayushi travels the fastest and slowest. How does this relate to Kepler’s second law? At what point in the orbit does the planet have the most angular momentum?
3. Victor and Morgan are floating in space and decide to play catch. Describe how each person will move when Victor throws the ball and when Morgan catches the ball. What would happen to them if they threw the ball to each other several more times?
4. ExplainNewton’sfirstandsecondlaws.Howcanyouusetheselawstoexplain how the Earth orbits the Sun? Why doesn’t it fall straight into the Sun?
5. What determines how much gravitational force the Earth feels from the Sun? How does this compare to the gravitational force the Sun feels from the Earth? If the distance between the Earth and the Sun decreases by a half, how would this force change?

 Clicker Question 3
Which of the following shows the orbit of a comet around the Sun in accordance with Kepler’s laws?
    fastest
slowest
A
C
slowest
fastest
B
slowest
       fastest
fastest
slowest
fastest
DE
slowest

 Clicker Question 4
The Earth is moving through space at 30 kilometers per second relative to the Sun. Why does it orbit the Sun instead of flying off into space? It does this because...
A. The Earth is held in orbit by the Moon.
B. Energy must be conserved.
C. Angular momentum must be conserved.
D. The Sun exerts a gravitational force on the Earth. E. The Sun is more massive than the Earth.
 
 Clicker Question 5
In the year 2200, supreme leader Connor orders humanity to move Earth to an orbit 2 AU away from the Sun in an effort to combat climate change. How will the gravitational force that the Earth feels from the Sun change?
A. It would be 4 times stronger. B. It would be 2 times stronger. C. It would remain the same. D. It would be 2 times weaker. E. It would be 4 times weaker.
 
 Announcements:
Midterm this Thursday, October 18th at 2:10pm
Rooms are posted on Quercus

 Clicker Question 1
We always see the same side of the Moon because it is tidally locked. What does it mean for the Moon to be tidally locked?
A. The Moon orbits the Earth once every 28 days and does not spin. It is “locked” in place.
B. The Moon spins once every 28 days and orbits the Earth once every 28 days.
C. The Moon spins once every day and orbits the Earth once every 28 days.
D. The Moon spins once every 28 days and orbits the Earth once every year.
E. The Sun always shines on the same side of the Moon.
 
 Clicker Question 2
What is the Sun’s primary source of energy?
A. The core is shrinking, releasing gravitational energy.
B. The core is expanding, releasing gravitational
energy.
C. Nuclear fission occurs in the core, converting mass
into energy.
D. Nuclear fusion occurs in the core, converting mass
into energy.
E. The core of the Sun is on fire, and releases energy
as it burns its core fuel.
 
 1. DrawadiagramshowinghowtheMooncausestidesoftheoceansontheEarth. How does the Sun affect these tides? If you spend 24 hours on the beach at the Pacific ocean, how many high and low tides will you see? Use your diagram to explain why.
2. WhyisthetidalbulgeoftheoceannotperfectlyalignedwiththeMoon?Drawa diagram showing the Earth, the tidal bulge, and the Moon. This misalignment causes the tidal bulge to pull on the Moon. Add an arrow to your diagram showing the direction of this pull. How will this affect the Earth and the Moon in the future?
3. WhatpreventstheSunfromexpandingoutwardasitfuseshydrogenintohelium? If the Sun’s core temperature were to increase slightly, would the Sun’s core continue to heat up, remain at this increased temperature, or cool off to its original temperature? Explain why. What if the Sun’s core temperature were to decrease slightly?
4. WhattypeofnuclearreactionoccursinthecentreoftheSun?Whatgoesintothis reaction? What is produced in this reaction? What would happen if this reaction could not continue?
5. SketchagraphoftheSun’sspectrum,withwavelengthonthehorizontalaxisand brightness of the vertical axis. On the same axis, sketch the spectrum of a star much hotter than the Sun. What can we learn about these stars by looking at their spectra?

 Clicker Question 3
If the Moon’s orbit were half its current size, the tides of the oceans on the Earth would be...
A. larger and occur twice as often.
B. smaller and occur two times less often.
C. larger but have roughly the same frequency.
D. smaller but have roughly the same
frequency.
E. The tides would not be affected.
 
 Clicker Question 4
What would happen if the Sun’s core temperature were to decrease slightly?
A. The temperature would continue to decrease, and the Sun would begin to collapse in on itself.
B. The Sun’s core would remain at this new temperature, shrinking slightly.
C. The Sun’s core would remain at this new temperature, expanding slightly.
D. The pressure in the core would decrease, causing the core to contract and heat back up.
E. The pressure in the core would increase, causing the core to expand and heat back up.
 
 Clicker Question 5
Which of the following diagrams correctly shows the blackbody spectra of a cold object and a hot object?
      A
B DE
C
 wavelength
wavelength
wavelength
cooler
hotter
       wavelength wavelength
brightness brightness
brightness brightness
brightness

 Credit: Nigel Sharp - NOAO

 Clicker Question 1
An absorption line is typically observed in the spectrum of an object when:
A. Matter changes state from plasma to gas. B. Electrons absorb the energy of photons. C.Light converts from waves to particles. D.Heavy atoms separate into lighter atoms. E. The temperature of the object changes.
 
 Clicker Question 2
What is the first step required to form a star?
A. A nearby supernova ignites a planet. B. Planets collide together.
C.Stars collide together.
D.A molecular cloud begins to collapse. E. A molecular cloud begins to expand.
 
 1. In class, you have seen that electrons occupy ‘energy levels’ in atoms. Draw a
simple energy level diagram with just 4 levels. Draw arrows to indicate what happens to the electrons in the process of absorption and emission. How many absorption lines would you see if this atom were in front of a source of blackbody radiation?
2. Margaret has announced that the element Fakeium should have absorption features at 580 nm (yellow light) and 470 nm (blue light). Sketch an approximate spectrum of the Sun's blackbody radiation, being sure to label your axes. How would this spectrum change if there were a little Fakeium in the Sun? How would this spectrum change if there were a lot of Fakeium in the Sun?
3. James has measured the spectrum of a nearby star in the spring, summer and fall. His measurements are shown below. From his memory of AST101, James concludes that that star is changing in temperature, going from hotter to colder as time goes forward. Given what you learned in Lecture 11, would you agree or disagree that his conclusion is the most complete explanation of his measurements? Why?
 
  4. Molecular clouds are some of the densest regions in the interstellar medium. What are they made of? Why do we have trouble seeing stars that are behind these objects? Do the clouds block all wavelengths of light equally?
5. In class, you have seen that a molecular cloud may be triggered to collapse under its own gravity. What happens to the temperature of the cloud as it collapses? What happens to the shape? At what point do we say that a star has formed?
Credit: APoD - NASA

 Clicker Question 3
If a star contains only element Fakeium, which has a ground state at 0 eV and energy levels at 4 eV and 5 eV, which of the following spectra could be observed from that star?
        blue 5eV 4eV 3eV 2eV 1eV red
A B C
D
     blue 5eV 4eV 1eV red
     blue 0eV 1eV 5eV red
     blue 1eV 5eV 4eV
red
E
      blue 1eV 4eV 5eV red

 Clicker Question 4
Taylor has measured a spectrum of a distant star, and found that it looks like the image below. She notices that the pattern of the absorption lines exactly matches those of the element Fakeium, but that the lines are in the wrong places (dashed lines on the spectrum show the true line locations). What can Taylor conclude about the star from her measurement?
 A. The star does not contain any Fakeium.
B. The star is getting hotter. C. The star is getting colder.
D. The star is moving towards Earth.
E. The star is moving away Earth.
 
 Clicker Question 5
Epson complains that he cannot see stars behind the molecular cloud B68. What should he do to be able to observe the stars?
 A. Wait 6 months for the Earth to orbit to the other side of the Sun. B. Wait for the cloud to collapse.
C. Observe from a location with less light pollution.
D. Observe from a telescope just outside our atmosphere, in space. E. Observe the region at longer wavelengths.
Credit: ESO
 
  Announcements:
Next Week (Nov. 5-9) is Reading Week, so No Tutorials or Lecture
Tutorials will resume November 12th
  
  Clicker Question 1
The frost line is important for explaining how planets formed in our Solar System. What is the frost line?
A. The maximum depth that ice can be found in a planet.
B. The distance from the Sun at which water can freeze.
C. A region in the outer Solar System filled with icy comets and other planetesimals.
D. An absorption line in a spectrum caused by ice.
E. An emission line in a spectrum caused by ice.
   
  Clicker Question 2
Which of the following is the most likely description of how planets formed in the Solar System? Planets formed...
A. out of material in a disk surrounding a newly-formed Sun.
B. out of material captured by the Sun when it passed
through a molecular cloud.
C. out of material pulled off when another star got too close
to the Sun.
D. out of material launched towards the Sun from a nearby
supernova.
E. out of material launched out of the Sun during solar
flares.
   
 1. Element A decays into Element B with a half-life of 1 billion years. If we start with 8 atoms of Element A, how many atoms of Elements A and B will we have after one half-life? How many after two half-lives? Explain how this concept can be used to determine ages in the Solar System.
2. Describe the Nebular Theory for the formation of the Solar System. What evidence can we find in the Solar System that supports this theory? What evidence can we find that contradicts this theory? How can we explain these pieces of counter-evidence within the Nebular Theory?
3. What are the two main types of planets found in our Solar System? Using the concept of a “frost line”, explain why these two separate classes of planets formed, and why they have different sizes, locations, and compositions.
4. Use the Nebular Theory to explain the formation of Jupiter’s “Galilean moons”. Is this likely how the Earth’s Moon formed as well? Why or why not? Describe two other ways in which planets can get a moon, and explain which of these best accounts for the existence of the Earth’s Moon.
5. Compare and contrast Mercury and the Moon in terms of their surface features, compositions, and masses. What do we mean when we say that Mercury and the Moon have old surfaces, and how do we know that they are old? Why doesn’t Venus have an old surface?

  Clicker Question 3
Potassium-40 decays into Argon-40 with a half-life of 1 billion years. Natalie has brought you a rock containing 2 atoms of Potassium-40 and 6 atoms of Argon-40 and wants to know its age. How old is Natalie’s rock?
    A. 4 billion years old
B. 3 billion years old
C. 2 billion years old
D. 1 billion years old
E. It is impossible to
Original Rock
Natalie’s Rock
                     determine this rock’s age.
= Potassium-40 = Argon-40
  
  Clicker Question 4
Chris has challenged the Nebular Theory! He argues that Uranus’s large orbital tilt of 98 degrees relative to the plane of the Solar System is evidence against the theory. What should you tell Chris to convince him that the theory is correct?
A. The Nebular Theory only accounts for the direction of orbits, not their tilts.
B. Many objects in the outer Solar System have large orbital tilts, so this does not matter.
C. Uranus likely experienced a giant impact in the past, affecting its orbital tilt.
D. Uranus is likely a captured planet, meaning that it will not have the same tilt as the rest of the Solar System planets.
E. Chris is correct, and the Nebular Theory should be discarded.
  
  Clicker Question 5
In our Solar System, terrestrial planets are observed to be closer to the Sun than Jovian planets. Which of the following is a reason for this observation?
A. Rocky materials are heavier than gas and so fall closer to the Sun.
B. Icy compounds condense into solids farther from the Sun, therefore
larger planets form farther away.
C. The Sun’s gravity is not strong enough to hold on to light hydrogen and
helium gases, so these materials escaped to the outer Solar System.
D. All the planets formed at roughly the same location, but the lightest
planets were pulled inwards by the strong gravitational pull of the Sun.
E. Solar winds blew off the atmospheres of the planets closest to the Sun,
leaving only their rocky cores.
   
 Exam Date Posted: www.artsci.utoronto.ca/current/exams/ (please check it for yourself)

 Clicker Question 1
Light from the sun is trapped as heat because of the greenhouse effect. What causes this effect?
A. Molecules in the atmosphere absorb green wavelengths very well, and heat up in the process.
B. Plant life on Earth absorbs sunlight and converts it to energy, which is eventually released as heat.
C. Sand on the surface fuses into glass, which absorbs heat very well.
D. The atmosphere contracts due to gravity, and heats up in the process.
E. Certain gases in the atmosphere let sunlight pass through to the surface, but trap the heat inside.
 
 Clicker Question 2
What is the primary reason why Mars has a very thin atmosphere?
A. Mars is farther from the sun, where less gas is available.
B. Mars is too close to Jupiter, which captured most of the
nearby gas during the early solar system.
C. Mars never had significant volcanic activity to cause
outgassing.
D. Mars has no significant magnetic field to protect its
atmosphere from being stripped by the sun.
E. Mars lost its oceans, so there is less evaporation to create
an atmosphere.
 
 1. Giveanexampleofagreenhousegas.Drawadiagramshowinghowthese gases trap heat in the atmosphere, being sure to label incoming and outgoing energy. How can we use the greenhouse effect to explain why Venus is hotter than Mercury, despite being farther from the Sun?
2. The carbon cycle helps regulate the amount of CO2 in the atmosphere. Summarize the steps of the carbon cycle. How does this cycle help regulate the temperature of the Earth? On Venus, there is a large amount of carbon in the atmosphere. Why has the carbon cycle failed on Venus?
3. TheinteriorsoftheplanetsweremuchhotterwhentheSolarSystemwasyoung. What property of a planet determines how quickly it cools off? Today, do you
expect the interior of Mars to be hotter or colder than Earth’s? Use this to explain why the Earth and Mars have different levels of geological activity.
4. TheatmosphereofVenusismuchthickerthanEarth’s,andtheatmosphereof Mars is much thinner. How do the atmospheres of terrestrial planets get their gas? How do they lose their gas? Why did Mars lose so much of its atmosphere, while Earth did not?
5. Recalltheconceptofescapespeedfromclass.Whydotheterrestrialplanets have almost no hydrogen in their atmospheres? Compare the escape speeds of Earth, Venus, and Mars. How does this comparison help explain why Mars has a higher deuterium/hydrogen ratio than Earth?

 Clicker Question 3
The carbon cycle regulates the surface temperature of Earth. When surface temperatures increase, an effective carbon cycle means that...
A. the amount of volcanic activity will increase, the ash will block sunlight, and temperatures will fall back down.
B. oceans will release more CO2 into the atmosphere, more sunlight will be blocked, and temperatures will fall back down.
C. the extra rain will dissolve CO2 out of the atmosphere, reducing the greenhouse effect, and temperatures will fall back down.
D. CO2 is able to escape the atmosphere into space, reducing the
greenhouse effect, and temperatures will fall back down.
E. CO2 in the atmosphere break apart, reducing the greenhouse
effect, and temperatures will fall back down.
  
 Clicker Question 4
Mars exhibits much less geological activity than Earth. What is a primary reason for this?
A. After their formation, the interior of Mars cooled off more quickly than Earth’s because of its smaller size.
B. Mars is much older than Earth, so the interior is more calm.
C. Mars spins more slowly than Earth, so the interior is more calm.
D. Mars does not have a large moon like the Earth, so there are
no significant tidal forces.
E. Mars does not have tectonic plates like Earth does, so there is
nothing to create geological activity.
 
 Clicker Question 5
The terrestrial planets have almost no hydrogen or helium in their atmospheres, while the jovian planets have significant amounts. What is the primary reason for this?
A. There was not much hydrogen or helium in the inner regions of the Solar System during formation.
B. Hydrogen and helium gas easily reach the escape speed of the smaller, terrestrial planets.
C. The jovian planets are much farther away, so the sun cannot strip the hydrogen and helium from their atmospheres.
D. Hydrogen and helium react chemically with the rock and metals of the terrestrial planets, and are removed from the atmosphere.
E. The terrestrial planets have fewer collisions with asteroids and comets, which deposit hydrogen and helium.
 
  Observing Project Due Next Week!
  https://media4.s-nbcnews.com/i/newscms/2017_16/1968396/170418-asteroid-mn-0730_b2c1f54812269d7ea29e5890b0c2b173.jpg

  Clicker Question 1
Why are comets primarily composed of ices while asteroids are primarily composed of rocky material?
A. Only ice was available to create objects where comets were forming.
B. Comets formed outside the frostline while asteroids formed inside the frostline.
C. Asteroids formed at the same time as the terrestrial planets while comets formed much later.
D. Comets are on elliptical orbits that bring them to the cold outer Solar System.
E. Asteroids are kept too warm for ices by tidal heating from Jupiter.
   
  Clicker Question 2
Why did Pluto lose its status as a planet?
A. It has an unusual composition
B. It is too far
C. Its orbit is too eccentric
D. It hasn’t cleared its orbit
E. It didn’t form at the same time as the other planets
https://img.buzzfeed.com/buzzfeed-static/static/2015-10/28/11/campaign_images/webdr10/the-sad-pluto-meme-i s-making-the-internet-weep-2-17072-1446047759-0_dblbig.jpg
     
 1. What are asteroids made of, and where do we find them in the Solar System? What are the two main types of meteorites, and what are they made of? What can these meteorites tell us about the origins of the Solar System?
2. What are comets made of, and where do we find them in the Solar System? What are the sources of the different comet tails? In what direction do these tails point, and why? Draw a diagram showing the orbital path of a comet around the Sun, including these tails.
3. What differentiates a planet from a dwarf planet? What differentiates a dwarf planet from an asteroid? Taking into account the three criteria required to be considered a planet, explain why Pluto is now considered a dwarf planet. What are the advantages and disadvantages of requiring planets to fit these strict criteria?
4. Sketch the approximate interior structure of each of the Jovian planets. How do these interiors differ from those of the terrestrial planets? How do the interiors of the Jovian planets differ from each other? Why is the term “gas giant” a misnomer?
5. Where do we see rings in the Solar System? What are the rings made of and where can this material come from? What do Saturn’s rings look like when viewed from above Saturn’s north pole, and from a point high above its equator? Sketch these two views of Saturn’s rings.

  Clicker Question 3
Which of the following best depicts a comet as it orbits the Sun?
ABC
DE
              = Sun
= comet
= plasma tail = dust tail
      
  Clicker Question 4
Which diagram best shows the interior layers of Jupiter? (H = hydrogen)
ABCDE
               clouds
 gaseous H
 water + methane
  liquid H
rock, metal, H compound core
  clouds
  gaseous H
 liquid H
  water + methane
rock, metal, H compound core
  clouds
  gaseous H
 liquid H
  metallic H
rock, metal, H compound core
  clouds
  gaseous H
  water + methane
  liquid H
 metallic H core
 clouds
  gaseous H
 liquid H
  water + methane
 metallic H core
        towards centre

  Clicker Question 5
Abhinav finds a small meteorite made of rocky minerals and a small but noticeable fraction of pure metallic flakes. Where could it have come from?
A. The crust or mantle of a large asteroid.
B. The surface of a comet.
C. The core of a dwarf planet destroyed during a collision.
D. It formed that way in the early Solar System.
E. There is no way to tell.
   
 Reminder: this is your last tutorial!
https://cdn.cnn.com/cnnnext/dam/assets/180427130953-01-insight-lander-super-tease.jpg

 Clicker Question 1
The Galilean moons are Jupiter’s four largest moons. Why is there more geological activity on moons closer to Jupiter compared to the moons that are farther?
A. Temperatures were higher near the centre of the disk that formed the Jupiter system.
B. The closer moons experience more extreme seasons.
C. The closer moons experience greater tidal heating.
D. The closer moons are larger in size, so they cooled off
slower.
E. The closer moons are much younger than the farther
moons.
 
 Clicker Question 2
Which of the following statements about rings is FALSE?
A. Rings are found around each of the gas giants.
B. Rings tend to orbit further away than large moons.
C. Moons can create gaps in rings.
D. Ring particles range in size from dust grains to large
boulders.
E. Rings are primarily composed of rocky and icy solid
particles.
 
 1. Starting from the diagram below and considering the 1:2:4 resonance, draw the positions of Ganymede and Europa after Io completes 1, 2, 3, and 4 orbits. How does this resonance affect the shapes of these orbits? Is Callisto in an orbital resonance? Why or why not?
2. Sketch Europa’s elliptical orbit around Jupiter and label the points at which Europa feels the strongest and weakest tidal force. How does Europa’s shape change between these points? How does this affect Europa’s interior and surface? Does this happen to other moons, and could it also happen to planets?
 
 3. The diagram below shows a shepherd moon, an interior ring particle, and an exterior ring particle in orbit around Saturn. Rank their orbital speeds and draw arrows on the diagram to represent their orbital speeds. A short time later, which of the three has moved the greatest distance? In what direction does the moon’s gravity pull each ring particle? How does this change the orbits of the ring particles?
4. Describe and distinguish between space missions that are flybys, orbiters, landers, and sample return missions, providing one example of each. What are the advantages and disadvantages of each type? Why do we often send flybys or orbiters before landing directly on a planet?
5. What is a slingshot maneuver? Name one example of a space mission that has used a slingshot maneuver, and sketch a diagram showing how this maneuver worked. What are the advantages of using a slingshot maneuver for space missions?
 
 Clicker Question 3
Starting from the diagram below, how many orbits will Io have to complete before it feels the strongest gravitational pull from
Europa?
A. half an orbit
B. one orbit
C. one and a
half orbits
D. two orbits
E. four orbits
ABC
  
 Clicker Question 4
In the diagram below, a narrow planetary ring is formed because the...
A. Inner moon increases the ring particle speed while the outer moon decreases the ring particle speed.
B. Inner moon decreases the ring particle speed while the outer moon increases the ring particle speed.
C. Moons eventually collide, leaving a stream of particles to form a ring.
D. Moons accrete nearby material, and leftover particles form a ring.
E. Moons eject nearby material from the system, and leftover particles form a ring.
   
 Clicker Question 5
What is the most accurate description of a slingshot maneuver?
A. Fuel is burned to reverse the direction that a spacecraft travels in.
B. A spacecraft is launched from Earth in the direction of Earth’s orbit, to maximize speed.
C. A spacecraft is able to land safely on Earth by burning fuel to slow its fall.
D. Momentum is transferred from a planet to a spacecraft through a gravitational interaction.
E. A spacecraft ejects weight that it will not use, to maximize speed.
 